Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective
On-Chain Mixers
Zhipeng Wang #
Imperial College London, UK

Marko Cirkovic #
University of Bern, Switzerland

Duc V. Le1 #
Visa Research, Sunnyvale, CA, USA

William Knottenbelt #
Imperial College London, UK

Christian Cachin #
University of Bern, Switzerland


       Abstract
On-chain mixers, such as Tornado Cash (TC), have become a popular privacy solution for many
non-privacy-preserving blockchain users. These mixers enable users to deposit a fixed amount of
coins and withdraw them to another address, while effectively reducing the linkability between these
addresses and securely obscuring their transaction history. However, the high cost of interacting
with existing on-chain mixer smart contracts prohibits standard users from using the mixer, mainly
due to the use of computationally expensive cryptographic primitives. For instance, the deposit cost
of TC on Ethereum is approximately 1.1M gas (i.e., 66 USD in June 2023), which is 53× higher than
issuing a base transfer transaction.
    In this work, we introduce the Merkle Pyramid Builder approach, to incrementally build the
Merkle tree in an on-chain mixer and update the tree per batch of deposits, which can therefore
decrease the overall cost of using the mixer. Our evaluation results highlight the effectiveness of
this approach, showcasing a significant reduction of up to 7× in the amortized cost of depositing
compared to state-of-the-art on-chain mixers. Importantly, these improvements are achieved without
compromising users’ privacy. Furthermore, we propose the utilization of verifiable computations to
shift the responsibility of Merkle tree updates from on-chain smart contracts to off-chain clients,
which can further reduce deposit costs. Additionally, our analysis demonstrates that our designs
ensure fairness by distributing Merkle tree update costs among clients over time.

2012 ACM Subject Classification Security and privacy → Pseudonymity, anonymity and untrace-
ability

Keywords and phrases Privacy, Blockchain, Mixers, Merkle Tree

Digital Object Identifier 10.4230/LIPIcs.AFT.2023.16

Related Version Full Version: https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1222 [39]

Funding Duc V. Le: Supported by a grant from Protocol Labs to the University of Bern.

Acknowledgements The authors thank anonymous reviewers for helpful feedback.



1
    The main part of the work was conducted while the author was at the University of Bern.

            © Zhipeng Wang, Marko Cirkovic, Duc V. Le, William Knottenbelt, and Christian Cachin;
            licensed under Creative Commons License CC-BY 4.0
5th Conference on Advances in Financial Technologies (AFT 2023).
Editors: Joseph Bonneau and S. Matthew Weinberg; Article No. 16; pp. 16:1–16:25
                   Leibniz International Proceedings in Informatics
                   Schloss Dagstuhl – Leibniz-Zentrum für Informatik, Dagstuhl Publishing, Germany
16:2   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


        1      Introduction

       Permissionless blockchains, such as Bitcoin [29] and Ethereum [41], provide pseudonymity
       rather than complete anonymity. Each transaction is openly recorded in plaintext on the
       public ledger, revealing details such as the transaction amount, timestamp, and the addresses
       of the sender and recipient. While this information alone may not directly expose the
       individuals involved, it poses a risk as malicious actors can exploit it to analyze and link
       addresses, potentially compromising the anonymity of users [15, 44, 37, 38].
           To enhance the privacy on non-privacy-preserving blockchains, on-chain mixers [4, 6, 1, 23]
       have been proposed. On-chain mixers are Decentralized Applications running on a blockchain
       with smart contracts, in which users deposit a fixed amount of coins into a pool, and
       subsequently withdraw those coins to a different address. When being used properly, on-
       chain mixers enable unlinkability between the deposit and the withdrawal addresses. The
       most active on-chain mixer, Tornado Cash (TC), has accumulated more than 51K unique
       deposit addresses for its largest pool [38]. The set of deposit addresses is similar to k-
       anonymity, which allows a withdrawal to be hidden among a set of k other deposits. The
       larger anonymity set size is accumulated, the harder it can link a user’s withdrawal address
       to the corresponding deposit address.
           However, achieving unlinkability through on-chain mixers comes at the cost of expensive
       deposit operations, making it difficult for regular users to use them. In particular, on-chain
       mixers use Merkle tree with Snark-friendly hash functions such as MiMC [7] and Poseidon [18]
       to record deposit and withdrawal history. When a deposit happens, the new leaf is appended
       sequentially to the Merkle tree. This update operation is the most expensive operation for
       on-chain mixers. In particular, depositing into TC costs approximately 1.1M gas, equating
       to roughly 66 USD as of June 2023. Such high costs can potentially discourage users from
       utilizing the mixer, thereby impeding the growth rate of the anonymity set size. Consequently,
       it becomes crucial to address these expensive deposit costs to ensure wider adoption and
       encourage the continued expansion of the anonymity set size.
          In this paper, we propose two approaches to reduce the overall deposit costs in on-chain
       mixers. Firstly, we introduce the Merkle Pyramid Builder approach, in which we batch
       the deposits together and renew the Merkle tree per batch. This approach provides a
       promising solution to the scalability and efficiency challenges of on-chain mixers. Secondly,
       we propose the utilization of off-chain verifiable computation to further minimize deposit costs.
       This approach empowers clients to perform Merkle tree updating computations locally and
       provide cryptographic proofs to validate the accuracy of these computations. By shifting the
       responsibility of updating the Merkle tree from on-chain smart contracts to off-chain clients,
       we can significantly reduce the associated costs, enhancing the overall system efficiency.
            Our contributions can be summarized as follows.



       1. Merkle Pyramid Builder. We propose the Merkle Pyramid Builder (MPB) approach,
       which batches the deposits in a queue and reduces the Merkle tree update times in an on-chain
       mixer. This approach decreases the average number of times to execute the expensive Merkle
       tree with smart contracts per deposit. We locally implement the improved mixer with MPB
       construction, and our evaluation results demonstrate its remarkable ability to reduce deposit
       costs by 7× compared to the widely adopted TC mixer.
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                            16:3


2. Off-Chain Deposit Proof Generation. We employ Verifiable Computation (VC) tech-
niques to further minimize the cost of updating the Merkle tree. This is accomplished by
offloading computations to the off-chain environment, effectively eliminating the computa-
tional requirements imposed on the smart contract. Our empirical evaluation results indicate
that this approach further reduces the cost of a single deposit update.

3. Formal On-Chain Mixer Analysis Framework. We provide a formal framework to
analyze the on-chain mixers by considering the properties of correctness, privacy, availability,
efficiency, and fairness. We prove that our deposit-cost-reduction approaches offer enhanced
efficiency without deteriorating other properties. Particularly, our analysis shows that the
improved mixers can also guarantee fairness, with which the clients’ costs for interacting with
the mixer can be amortized over time. Furthermore, our analysis framework is of independent
interest and could be applied to analyze other mixer designs.
     The full version of this paper is available at [39].

 2     Preliminaries

2.1    On-chain Mixers
On non-privacy-preserving blockchains, transactions are recorded in plaintext on the public
ledger. On-chain mixers, inspired by Zerocash [32], are one of the most widely-used privacy
solutions for non-privacy-preserving blockchains. On-chain mixers are running on top of
blockchains with smart contracts, e.g., Ethereum and Binance Smart Chain (BSC). Upon
using a mixer, a user deposits a fixed denomination of coins into a pool and later withdraws
these coins to another address [4, 5, 6, 1, 23]. When used properly, mixers can break the
linkability between addresses, and thus enhance users’ privacy. The largest on-chain mixer,
TC, has accumulated over 3.54M ETH from more than 39K Ethereum addresses [38].

2.2    Cryptographic Primitives
Notation. We denote by 1λ the security parameter and by negl(λ) a negligible function in
λ. We express by (pk, sk) a pair of public and private keys. Moreover, we require that pk can
always be efficiently and deterministically derived from sk, and denote extractPK(sk) = pk
to be the deterministic function to derive pk from sk. We denote Z≥a as the set of integers
that are greater or equal a, {a, a + 1, . . . }. We let PPT denote probabilistic polynomial time.
We denote st[a, b, c . . . ] as an instance of the statement st where a, b, c . . . have fixed and
public values. We use a shaded area i, j, k to denote the private inputs in the statement
st : {(a, b, c; i, j, k) : f (a, b, c, x, y, z) = true}.

Collision Resistant Hash Functions. A family H of hash functions is collision-resistant, iff for
                    $
all PPT A, given h ←− H, the probability that A finds x, x′ , such that h(x) = h(x′ ) is negligible.
We refer to the cryptographic hash function h as a fixed function, h : {0, 1}∗ → {0, 1}λ . For
the formal definitions of the hash function family, we refer readers to [31].

zk-SNARK. A zero-knowledge Succinct Non-interactive ARgument of Knowledge (zk-
SNARK) is a “succinct” non-interactive zero-knowledge proof (NIZK) for arithmetic circuit
satisfiability. The construction of zk-SNARK is based on a field F and an arithmetic
circuit C. An arithmetic circuit satisfiability problem of a circuit C : Fn × Fh → Fl is
captured by the statement stC : {(x, wit) ∈ Fn × Fh : C(x, wit) = 0l }, with the language
LC = {x ∈ Fn | ∃ wit ∈ Fh s.t. C(x, wit) = 0l }.


                                                                                                       AFT 2023
16:4   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


       ▶ Definition 1 (zk-SNARK). zk-SNARK for arithmetic circuit satisfiability is a triple of
       efficient algorithms (Setup, Prove, Verify):
            (ek, vk) ← Setup(1λ , C) takes as input the security parameter and the arithmetic circuit
            C, outputs an evaluation key ek, and a verification key vk.
            π ← Prove(ek, x, wit) takes as input the evaluation key ek and (x, wit) ∈ stC , outputs a
            proof π for the statement x ∈ LC .
            0/1 ← Verify(vk, π, x) takes as input the verification key vk, the proof π, the statement
            x, outputs 1 if π is valid proof for the statement x ∈ LC .


       Commitment Scheme. A commitment scheme allows an entity to commit to a value while
       keeping it hidden, with the option of later revealing the value. A commitment scheme
       contains two rounds: committing and revealing. During the committing round, a client
       commits to selected values while concealing them from others. The client can choose to
       reveal the committed value during the revealing round, and another entity can verify its
       consistency.

       ▶ Definition 2 (Commitment Scheme). A commitment scheme includes two algorithms:
         cm ← Commit(m, r) accepts a message m and a secret randomness r as inputs and
         returns the commitment string cm.
         0/1 ← Verify(m, r, cm) accepts a message m, a commitment cm and a decommitment
         value r as inputs, and returns 1 if the commitment is opened correctly and 0 otherwise.

       A secure commitment scheme satisfies two requirements: (i) Binding: Except for a negli-
       gible probability, no adversary can efficiently create cm, (m1 , r1 ), and (m2 , r2 ) such that
       Verify(m1 , r1 , cm) = Verify(m2 , r2 , cm) = 1 and m1 ̸= m2 . (ii) Hiding: Except for a
       negligible probability, cm does not reveal any information about the committed data.


       Authenticated Data Structure. An Authenticated Data Structure (ADS) is a data structure
       that not only stores information but also provides a cryptographic proof of the integrity
       and authenticity of its contents. It allows for efficient verification of data integrity without
       requiring the entire data structure to be transmitted or stored alongside the proof. In this
       work, we adopt the Merkle tree as an ADS for set membership proof.

       ▶ Definition 3 (Merkle Tree). A Merkle tree leverages a collision-resistant hash function h
       to construct the data structure. The four algorithms work as follows:
           root ← Init(1λ , X) takes the security parameter and a list X = (x1 , . . . , xn ) as inputs,
           constructs a tree that stores x1 , . . . , xn in the leaves, and finally outputs a root, root.
           pathi ← Prove(i, x, X) takes an element x ∈ {0, 1}∗ , 1 ≤ i ≤ n and a list X =
           (x1 , . . . , xn ) as inputs, and outputs the proof pathi , which can prove that x is in X. The
           proof generation time is proportional to n, while the proof size grows logarithmically with
           n.
           0/1 ← Verify(i, xi , root, pathi ) takes an element, xi ∈ {0, 1}∗ , an index 1 ≤ i ≤ n, y ∈
           {0, 1}λ and a proof π as inputs, and outputs 1 if π is correctly verified and 0 otherwise.
           y ′ ← Update(i, x, X) takes an element x ∈ {0, 1}∗ , 1 ≤ i ≤ n and X as inputs, and
           outputs y ′ = Init(1λ , X ′ ) where X ′ is X but xi ∈ X is replaced by x.

          A Merkle tree should satisfy correctness and security. For the formal definitions of these
       properties, we refer to the cryptography introduction book of Boneh and Shoup [13].
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                           16:5


Cost for Appending to Merkle tree. Let T be a Merkle hash tree of size n and assume
that all internal nodes are stored. If a single element is appended, the computational cost of
updating a Merkle hash tree is O(log n) if the internal tree nodes are stored. This can be
done by traversing the right-most path of the tree and modifying at most O(log n) internal
nodes of the tree.

Inefficiency of Multiple Appending Operations in Existing On-Chain Mixers. We observe
that despite the theoretically efficient append operation, the utilization of a SNARK-friendly
hash function still leads to a log n cost of appending that amounts to around 1M gas. For k
deposits, this operation is repeated k times, raising the cost to O(k · log n).
    However, in a conventional mixer, to assimilate within a sufficiently large anonymity
set, users often wait several days before withdrawing funds [38, 23]. Consequently, this
suggests that the Merkle tree update operation could be processed in a batch rather than
individually each time. This adjustment could potentially decrease the cost from O(k log(n))
to O(k + log(n)). Further details on this improvement will be provided in Section 5.

Efficient Replace. The update algorithm described previously needs the entire set X to be
able to recalculate the root. Nevertheless, it is feasible to update the root without knowing
the entire set. Specifically, we can update the root in O(log(|X|)) operations using only the
information about the node membership that one wants to replace and the current root.
This update will allow an efficient on-chain update of the Merkle tree.
    root′dep /⊥ ← Replace(i, x, rootdep , pathi , x′ ): takes as input the index i, the old element
    x and its membership proof pathi , and the new element, x′ that we want to put in the
    i-th position. The algorithm verifies the membership of both x in the old rootdep using
    pathi , abort otherwise. Once the verification returns 1, it recomputes the root root′dep
    using x′ and pathi .
This efficient update is needed for the construction using verifiable computation.

 3     On-chain Mixer System
This section presents the on-chain mixer system’s components and the algorithms for the
setup phase, the client, and the smart contract.

3.1    System Components
The system consists of two components: the client and the smart contract. A client controls
blockchain addresses to interact with the smart contract, which governs a pool of assets. A
client can either deposit/withdraw coins into/from the pool. The smart contract manages
both deposit and withdrawal actions. The contract keeps track of various data structures
and parameters to verify the validity of transactions that are sent to the contract.

3.2    Contract Setup
In the setup phase, all public parameters and the mixer smart contract are generated. The
contract will be initialized with different data structures to avoid double withdrawal.
     Furthermore, the deposit amount is specified as a fixed deposit amount of coins, amt. The
smart contract is set up with two empty lists: (i) DepositList, which includes all commitments
cm contained in depositing transactions; (ii) NullifierList, which contains all unique identifiers
(i.e., sn) appeared in withdrawal transactions. We refer to pph as the state of the contract at



                                                                                                      AFT 2023
16:6   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


       block height h. The state includes all data structures of the contract, which were initialized
       in the setup phase. This state is implicitly provided to all client and contract algorithms.
       Finally, the smart contract is deployed on-chain in this phase.


       3.3    Client Algorithm
       A client can interact with the smart contract using the following algorithms. Note that
       each transaction is signed by the client using the private key associated with the blockchain
       address which issues the transaction.
          (wit, txdep ) ← CreateDepositTx(sk, amt) takes a private key sk and an amount amt
          as inputs, and outputs a witness wit and a deposit transaction txdep .
          txwdr ← CreateWithdrawTx(sk′ , wit) takes as input a private key sk′ (which can be
          different from sk) and a witness wit, and outputs a withdrawal transaction txwdr .


       3.4    Smart Contract Algorithm
       The smart contract handles mixer deposits and withdrawals, with the following algorithms:
          0/1 ← AcceptDeposit(txdep ) takes as an input the deposit transaction txdep , and
          outputs 1 if the transaction was successful and 0 otherwise.
          0/1 ← IssueWithdraw(txwdr ) takes the withdrawal transaction txwdr as the input,
          and outputs 1 and transfers amt coins to the sender txwdr .sender if the transaction was
          successful. Otherwise, the algorithm outputs 0.


       3.5    System Goals
       A secure on-chain mixer aims to satisfy the following properties.


       Privacy. An on-chain mixer can break the linkability between user addresses. Consider an
       adversary with access to the entire history of all deposit and withdrawal transactions made
       to the mixer contract. Given a client who deposits into and withdraws from the mixer, the
       system ensures that the adversary cannot (i) link the deposit and withdrawal transactions
       issued by the client, and (ii) link the deposit and withdrawal addresses used by the client.


       Correctness. A client cannot withdraw more coins from the contract than the client deposits.
       Moreover, a client cannot withdraw coins from the mixer prior to the deposit. The property
       prevents a client from stealing coins from the contract or other clients.


       Availability. Clients should always be able to use the mixer. No entity can prevent clients
       from depositing or withdrawing coins.


       Efficiency. The system should efficiently update clients’ deposits and withdrawals, without
       causing expensive costs.


       Fairness. Given a time interval, the costs of clients who deposit into (resp. withdraw from)
       the mixer during the interval remain approximately equal. This property allows for the
       amortization of costs over time, contributing to a balanced and equitable user experience.
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                                    16:7


    4       Basic On-chain Mixer

4.1         Cryptographic Building Blocks
In the following, we present the cryptographic building blocks to construct on-chain mixers.

Deposit Commitments. Let (Com, Verify) be a commitment scheme that satisfies the
hiding and binding properties. To deposit into the contract, a client samples two randomnesses
kdep , r, and computes the commitment cm = Com(m, r) as a part of a deposit transaction.
In practice, the commitment scheme can be realized using a secure hash function Hp :
{0, 1}λ × {0, 1}λ → F.

Merkle Tree for Deposits. In an on-chain mixer, the leaves of the Merkle tree are initialized
with zero values. The mixer smart contract preserves the Merkle tree Tdep of all deposit
commitments. When deposit transactions occur, the smart contract keeps track of the total
number of deposit transactions and updates the tree using the AcceptDeposit algorithm.
We define the Merkle proof for commitment cmi as pathi . In addition, we define the root of
the Merkle tree at block h as rootcurr
                                  wdr . We also denote rootdep .blockheight as the height of
the blockchain block at the moment when rootdep is updated. Definition 4 formally defines a
deposit Merkle tree. Note that H2p : F × F → F is a collision-resistant hash function.

▶ Definition 4 (Deposit Merkle Tree). A deposit Merkle tree encompasses three essential
algorithms, namely T.Init(), T.Prove(), and T.Verify(), as defined in Definition 3. Addi-
tionally, the tree can be efficiently updated in a batch using the following algorithm:
    rootnew ← T.Update(Q) takes a list Q containing new hashes as input. The algorithm
    inserts the elements in Q into the existing Merkle tree, and thus the new root will be
    updated. The output is the new root, rootnew .

Withdrawal Proof. To withdraw coins from the smart contract, a client needs to satisfy:
1. The client has committed values for certain existing deposit commitments utilized to
    construct the tree root using zk-SNARK.
2. The nullifier in the withdrawal transaction has not been used to withdraw previously.
3. The private key used to issue the withdrawal transaction is known by the client.
In short, a client needs to provide a proof showing the following statement for a Merkle tree
Tdep with the root rootdep :

        stwdr : {(pk, sn, rootdep ;sk, kdep , r, pathi ) : pk = extractPK(sk) ∧ sn = Hp (kdep , 0λ )∧
                                 cm = Com(kdep , r) ∧ T.Verify(i, cm, rootdep , pathi ))}                (1)

where pk, sn, rootdep are public values and sk, kdep , r, pathi are private values2 .

4.2         Workflow of Basic On-chain Mixer
Fig. 1a shows a basic solution for an on-chain mixer system, which is adopted by existing
on-chain mixers, e.g., TC [4], Typhoon Network (TN) [6], and Cyclone [1]. In a nutshell, the
high-level workflow of a basic on-chain mixer is as follows:


2
    sk is not needed in the private values if the zk-SNARK has simulation extractability property [8].




                                                                                                               AFT 2023
16:8   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers




                                                                              qu
                                                                                 eue         Merkle Tree
                                 Merkle Tree



                               ...             0   0   0

                                                                            Mixer Smart Contract
                          Mixer Smart Contract
                                                 (b) Improved on-chain mixer with MPB. The Merkle tree is
       (a) Basic on-chain mixer. The Merkle tree updated once the leaves in the subtree corresponding to the
       is updated for every successful deposit.  deposit queue are full.

          Figure 1 Overview of basic and improved on-chain mixer systems.


       1. For each deposit transaction, a client adopts an address to issue a transaction, which
          transfers a fixed amount of coins into the mixer smart contract and generates a deposit
          commitment. The contract uses the Merkle trees of one pool to record the deposit
          commitments. Whenever a new deposit is made, the corresponding tree is updated,
          generating a new root. The recently updated roots are stored in a root list.
       2. To withdraw, the client provides a withdrawal proof. The proof essentially shows that the
          client knows the secret to open a commitment in a deposit transaction and a membership
          proof by providing a path from the commitment to one root stored in the roots list
          (cf. Equation 1). The client will receive coins after the contract verifies the proof. The
          contract also records all withdrawal transactions’ unique nullifiers.

       4.3    System Goals of Basic On-chain Mixer
       The basic mixers satisfy correctness, privacy, availability, and fairness when used properly:

       Correctness. To issue a withdrawal, a client is required to present a proof associated with a
       unique nullifier. The mixer smart contract maintains a record of all unique nullifiers associated
       with withdrawals. Consequently, a client is restricted from issuing more withdrawals than
       the number of deposits they have previously conducted with the mixer.

       Privacy. Considering the presence of n deposits within a mixer, a client’s new deposit
       transaction becomes concealed amidst the n transactions sharing the same deposit amount.
       Furthermore, by employing separate deposit and withdrawal addresses, the probability of an
       adversary successfully linking the accurate deposit and withdrawal transactions is n1 .

       Availability. As the mixer operates on a permissionless blockchain, which utilizes a global
       peer-to-peer network, adversaries are unable to impede clients from engaging with the mixer.

       Fairness. The Merkle tree is updated for each deposit, resulting in equal gas fees for clients.
       When clients withdraw from the mixer, they incur costs for proof verification. These deposit
       and withdrawal costs are dependent on the gas price. Therefore, assuming the gas price does
       not fluctuate over a short timeframe, the mixer ensures fairness of costs.
           However, we contend that the existing basic on-chain mixer design lacks efficiency since
       clients are required to pay a high deposit cost for updating the entire Merkle tree. In typical
       basic mixers such as TC, whenever a deposit request is made, the new coin is sequentially
       inserted into the Merkle tree, necessitating an update to the entire tree. This update
       operation becomes even more costly due to the utilization of Snark-friendly hash functions.
       For instance, by analyzing the 156,466 deposit transactions in the TC 0.1, 1, 10, and 100
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                              16:9


                        deposit-queue                                   Root
     1. iteration                       4. iteration




     2. iteration




     3. iteration




    Figure 2 Graphical illustration of the Merkle Pyramid Builder approach with a deposit queue
size of four. cmi represents the deposit commitment. In the first iteration, a deposit is made and
included in the deposit queue. For subsequent deposits, the client combines the new deposit with
the previously stored deposit, generating a new value that replaces the previous deposit in the queue.
The second and third deposits are appended to the queue. Upon the fourth deposit, all hashes,
including the root, are computed using all the values in the deposit queue. Finally, the deposit
queue is cleared, and the process restarts from the beginning for the next deposit.


ETH pools from block 9,117,019 (December 16th, 2019) to 16,329,600 (January 3rd, 2023),
we discovered that the average deposit cost for a TC ETH pool is approximately 1,111,030
gas, which is roughly 53 times higher than the Ethereum base fee of 21,000 gas.


 5         Improving On-chain Mixers via Merkle Pyramid Builder

Existing on-chain mixers suffer from expensive deposit costs due to the frequent update of the
Merkle tree per deposit. However, the one-deposit-one-update approach appears redundant
since it is advisable to wait for other clients to deposit before initiating a withdrawal [38, 23].
To reduce the update time of the Merkle tree, we draw inspiration from the concept of Merkle
tree mountain range [30, 33]. Accordingly, we propose a novel method called MPB.


Deposit-Queuing. To optimize the cost of deposits, we introduce a deposit-queuing method
that batches transactions, resulting in less frequent updates of the Merkle tree.

▶ Definition 5 (Deposit-Queuing). A deposit-queuing method consists of three algorithms:
  qempty ← CreateQueue(l) takes as input an integer l, which specifies the number of
  deposit transactions to be batched. It returns an empty queue qempty with a size of
  l, designed to store the nodes in a subtree with a height of log2 l. A deposit queue is
  considered full when all the leaves in the corresponding subtree are occupied.
  q ′ ← Enqueue(q, cm) takes as input a queue q containing internal nodes of the subtree
  that can be used as helpers for an efficient update and a new commitment cm. As shown
  in Fig. 2, this procedure resembles the storage of internal nodes in the Merkle Mountain
  Range [33] and accumulator construction outlined in [30]. The function produces a new
  output queue q ′ containing internal nodes that enable the subtree to perform efficient
  updates during subsequent deposits.
  qempty ← ClearQueue(q) takes as input a queue q. The algorithm returns an empty
  queue corresponding to a new subtree.



                                                                                                         AFT 2023
16:10   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers



                ContractSetUp(1λ )
                 1:    Sample Hp : {0, 1}λ × {0, 1}λ → F and H2p : F × F → F
                 2:    Choose amt ∈ Z>0 to be a fixed deposit amount
                 3:    Choose d ∈ Z>0 , Let X = {x1 , . . . , x2d } where xi = 0 for all xi ∈ X
                 4:    Initialize an empty tree rootdep = T.Init(1λ , X),
                 5:    Choose k ∈ Z>0 , set RootListwdr,k [i] = rootdep , for 1 ≤ i ≤ k
                 6:    Construct Cwdr for statement described in Equation 1
                 7:    Let Π be the zk-SNARK instance. Run (ekdep , vkdep ) ← Π.Setup(1λ , Cwdr )
                 8:    Initialize: DepositList = {}, NullifierList = {}, TotalFee = 0
                 9:    Initialize: DepositQueue ← CreateQueue(l)
                10 :   Deploy smart contract with parameters :
                       pp = (F, Hp , H2p , amt, feed , T, index, RootListwdr,k , DespositQueue,
                              (ekdep , vkdep ), DepositList, NullifierList, TotalFee)

           Figure 3 Pseudocode for the smart contract setup in a mixer with MPB.


        Merkle Pyramid Builder Approach. As shown in Fig. 1b, the key concept is to avoid
        frequent updates of the Merkle tree by aggregating deposit transactions and performing
        collective updates. In this approach, a deposit queue of size l corresponds to a subtree with
        a height of log2 l, as illustrated in Fig. 2. Notably, every even deposit in the sequence incurs
        no additional computational cost. However, each odd deposit requires hashing all the hashes
        up to the tree until no values remain on the left side within the same subtree. Finally, every
        l-th deposit necessitates computing all the hashes up to the root.

        5.1    Contract Setup
        The contract setup phase is to generate all the cryptographic parameters used in the protocol.
        In the setup phase (cf. Fig. 3), the algorithm ContractSetUp samples two secure hash
        functions Hp and H2p from the collision-resistant hash families. The procedure further
        initializes amt as the fixed amount of coins that can be deposited into the mixer contract.

        Setup Merkle Tree. We denote T as the deposit commitment Merkle tree with depth d.
        The algorithm T.Init initializes T as described in Section 4.1. The algorithm also initiates
        RootListwdr,k to be the list of k most recent roots of T , which can address the concurrency
        issue for withdrawal transactions.

        Setup zk-SNARK Parameters. We initialize a zk-SNARK instance Π with the algorithm
        Π.Setup with Cwdr as input, which can output two keys (ekdep , vkdep ).

        Setup Commitments and Nullifier Lists. The contract initializes two empty lists: (i)
        DepositList, which contains all cm included in deposit transactions; (ii) NullifierList, which
        contains all unique nullifiers sn committed in withdrawal transactions.

        Setup Deposit Queue. The DepositQueue is initialized to track the number of deposit
        transactions in the queue and the number of transactions that have been hashed. This
        information determines whether the subsequent client needs to bear the cost of updating the
        Merkle tree. Note that the queue size log2 l is the height of the subtree.
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                             16:11


   Client(sk, amt)                                Smart Contract
                                          txdep
   CreateDepositTx(sk, amt) :                     AcceptDeposit(txdep )

      1:
                             $
                              − {0, 1}λ
            Sample (kdep , r) ←                    1:    Parse txdep = (amt′ , cm, fee′d )
      2:    Compute cm = Hp (kdep , r)             2:    Require: amt=amt′ , feed = fee′d , index < 2d
      3:    return wit = (kdep , r),               3:    Append cm to DepositList
              txdep = (amt, cm, feed )             4:    Increment index = index + 1
                                                   5:    DepositQueue = Enqueue(DepositQueue, cm)
                                                   6:    TotalFee = TotalFee + feed
                                                         // The subtree is full
                                                   7:    if DepositQueue is full:
                                                   8:       Compute rootnew from DespositQueue
                                                   9:       ClearQueue(DespositQueue)
                                                  10 :      Append rootnew to RootListwdr,k
                                                            // Compensate the tree updater
                                                  11 :      Do txdep .sender.transfer(TotalFee)
                                                  12 :      TotalFee = 0
                                                  13 :   else :
                                                  14 :      Enqueue(DespositQueue, cm)
                                                  15 :   return 1


    Figure 4 Deposit interactions between the client and the smart contract in a mixer with MPB.
The computation of rootnew (in line 8) can be done via the efficient replace function Def.2.2. We
also note that line 3 is only for readability; in practice, users do not have to pay storage cost and
can retrieve the list through emitted onchain events.


Functionality of RootListwdr,k . Similar to existing on-chain mixers [4, 23], our mixer
contract maintains a list of the k most recent roots, denoted as RootListwdr,k . This list serves
as an “AllowList” [16] to maintain a list of authorized parties (i.e., roots), which can address
the concurrency issue.
    Consider a scenario where user Bob attempts to withdraw using the most recently updated
root rootk−1 from the RootListwdr,k . If an attacker, Alice, manages to make k deposits prior
to Bob’s withdrawal, these deposits would prompt k updates to the Merkle tree, effectively
removing rootk−1 from the refreshed RootListwdr,k and invalidating it for withdrawal.
    However, as demonstrated in [23], this attack’s cost is at least k × (amt + fee), where amt
represents the number of coins supported by the mixer pool (e.g., 0.1, 1, 10, and 100 for the
TC ETH pools), and fee denotes the deposit fee. Moreover, the cost is higher in our improved
mixer with MPB, as it typically requires k × l deposits to trigger k Merkle tree updates.
    Importantly, the presence of the RootListwdr,k does not introduce any vulnerability
to double withdrawals. The only downside is that users might experience a marginally
smaller anonymity set than the actual one. For instance, a user might use the root root0
(corresponding to |CmpSeth | deposits), but due to concurrency, the latest root available may
be rootk−1 (corresponding to |CmpSeth | + k deposits). In reality, k ≪ |CmpSeth | (e.g., in TC,
k is set to 100, while there are more than 26, 000 deposits in each ETH pool [38]), rendering
the difference in the anonymity set negligible.


5.2        Deposit Interaction
Fig. 4 shows the deposit process of a client in the mixer. This step allows the client to deposit
coins into the mixer pool and obtain the witness for future withdrawal.


                                                                                                         AFT 2023
16:12   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


        Client(sk)                                                  Smart Contract

         CreateWithdrawTx(sk, wit) :                        txwdr    IssueWithdraw(txwdr ) :

          1:    Parse wit = (kdep , r)                               1:   Parse: txwdr = (snwdr , rootdep , πwdr )
                           h                                         2:   Require:
          2:    Obtain pp from the contract
                                                                     3:     rootdep ∈ RootListwdr,k
          3:    Compute snwdr = Hp (kdep , 0λ )
                                                                     4:     snwdr ∈ / NullifierList
          4:    Compute cm = Hp (kdep , r)                           5:     Π.Verify(vkdep , πwdr , st[txwdr .sender,
          5:    Get index i of cm from DepositListh                         snwdr , rootdep ]) = 1
          6:    Choose rootdep ∈ RootListwdr,k                       6:   Append snwdr to NullifierList
          7:    Compute pathh                                             // Send the original deposit back
                            dep,i s.t.:
                                                                     7:   Do txwdr .sender.transfer(amt)
                T.Verify(i, cm, rootdep , pathh
                                              dep,i ) = 1            8:   return 1
          8:    Form witdep = (sk, kdep , r, pathh
                                                 dep,i )
          9:    πwdr ← Π.Prove(ekdep , witdep ,
                    st[pk, snwdr , rootdep ])
         10 :   return txwdr = (snwdr , rootdep , πwdr )


           Figure 5 Withdrawal interactions between the client and the smart contract in a mixer with
        MPB. The state of the contract at block height h is denoted by pph . The withdrawal transaction
        txwdr contains the proof πwdr that proves the client’s knowledge of cm = Hp (kdep , r) which is a valid
        member of the Merkle tree with the root rootwdr .


        Client. A client deposits coins into the contract using the algorithm CreateDepositTx.
        The client first randomly selects two parameters kdep and r, which are used to construct the
        commitment cm. The lengths of kdep and r are defined and fixed during the initial setup.
        The deposit transaction txdep consists of the commitment cm and the coins amt that the
        client wants to deposit. Moreover, the client needs to specify the deposit fee feed in the
        transaction. To issue the transaction txdep , the client must use their private key sk to sign it.
        In addition, a witness wit is issued, which will be used to withdraw the coins in the future.


        Contract. Upon receiving a deposit transaction txdep , the smart contract verifies that (i)
        the amount of coins and fees are as requested, and (ii) there is available space in the Merkle
        tree. If both conditions are met, the commitment in txdep is added to the DepositList. If
        the deposit queue is not full, the deposit fee will be added to the current total fee TotalFee.
        Otherwise, the total fee will be transferred to the last client and be reset as 0. With the
        algorithm Enqueue, the list DespositQueue will be updated. Moreover, if this deposit queue
        is full, the Merkle tree will be updated using the algorithm T.Update, and the smart contract
        will clear the deposit queue and finally add the new root to the list RootListwdr,k .
             Note that the last client in a deposit queue will pay the gas cost for updating the
        Merkle tree. To guarantee fairness, the previous clients in the queue need to transfer
        additional deposit fees feed to the smart contract, which will be accumulated and serve as the
        reimbursement for the last client. A more comprehensive analysis of the deposit fee design
        will be presented in Section 6.4.


        5.3     Withdrawal Interaction
        Fig. 5 shows the mixer withdrawal interaction. This step allows the client to use the secret
        witness to generate a proof which is used to withdraw the corresponding deposited coins.
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                                             16:13


Client(sk, amt)                                                 Smart Contract
                                                        txdep
 CreateDepositTx(sk, amt) :                                      AcceptDeposit(txdep )

  1:
                           $
                         − {0, 1}λ
       Sample (kdep , r) ←                                        1:    txdep = (amt′ , rootnew , πdep , cm, fee′d )
  2:   Compute cm = Hp (kdep , r)                                 2:    Require:

  3:    Read DepositQueue, RootListwdr,k                                 amt = amt′ , feed = fee′d , index < 2d
                                                                  3:    Append cm to DepositList
  4:    rootold
            dep = RootListwdr,k [−1]                              4:    index = index + 1
                                                                  5:    TotalFee = TotalFee + feed
  5:    Compute pathindex from DepositQueue
                                                                  6:    // The subtree is full
        input := (index, 0, rootold                               7:    if DepositQueue is full:
  6:                            dep , pathindex , cm)

                                                                  8:     rootold
                                                                             dep = RootListwdr,k [−1]
  7:    rootnew , πdep ← VcProve(ekvc
                                   dep , input)

  8:   return wit = (kdep , r),                                   9:     Compute pathindex from DepositQueue
       txdep = (amt, rootnew , πdep , cm, feed )
                                                                 10 :    input := (index, 0, rootold
                                                                                                 dep , pathindex , cm)


                                                                 11 :    Require VcVerify(vkvc
                                                                                            dep , input,


                                                                         rootnew , πdep ) = 1
                                                                 12 :    Append rootnew to RootListwdr,k
                                                                         // Compensate the tree updater
                                                                 13 :    Do txdep .sender.transfer(TotalFee)
                                                                 14 :    TotalFee = 0
                                                                 15 :    ClearQueue(DespositQueue)
                                                                 16 :   else :
                                                                 17 :    Enqueue(DespositQueue, cm)
                                                                 18 :   return 1


   Figure 6 Deposit interactions between the client and the smart contract in a mixer with VC.


Client. A client needs to create a withdrawal proof πwdr with the secret witness wit, and
the private key sk′ , to withdraw amt to the public key pk′ . The proof πwdr should be able to
prove the three conditions mentioned in Section 4.1. The client then issues the withdrawal
transaction txwdr , which consists of the nullifier snwdr , the root rootdep , and the proof πwdr .

Contract. When receiving a withdrawal transaction txwdr = (snwdr , rootdep , πwdr ), the
contract checks the proof, πwdr , and confirms that the nullifier snwdr is not in the NullifierList.
The contract then appends snwdr to NullifierList to avoid future double withdrawals. Finally,
the smart contract transfers amt coins to the withdrawal address specified by the client.

5.4     Further Improvement with Verifiable Computation Techniques
In this section, we employ verifiable computation techniques [17, 22] to enhance the efficiency
of deposit costs. In an on-chain mixer utilizing VC, the key idea is to conduct the computation
off-chain. In this approach, the client evaluates the Merkle tree root and transmits both the
result and a proof of correct computation to the smart contract. The contract subsequently
verifies the validity of the proof to ensure the accuracy of the computation.

5.4.1      Building Blocks for On-Chain Mixer with VC
Verifiable Computation Scheme. In a VC scheme (cf. Definition 6), the verifier selects
a function and an input to send to the prover. The prover evaluates the function on the
input and returns the result, along with proof attesting to the result’s validity. The verifier

                                                                                                                         AFT 2023
16:14   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


        then verifies that the output provided by the prover indeed corresponds to the result of
        the function evaluated on the given input. The objective is to achieve efficient verification,
        significantly faster than the actual computation of the function itself.

        ▶ Definition 6 (Verifiable Computation Scheme). Let f be a function, expressed as an
        arithmetic circuit over a finite field F, and let λ be a security parameter.
            (ek, vk) ← VcInit(1λ , f ) takes a security parameter and an arithmetic circuit as input
            and generates two public keys: an evaluation key ek and a verification key vk.
            (y, π) ← VcProve(ek, x) takes as input an element x and the evaluation key ek and
            computes y = f (x) and a proof π that y has been correctly computed.
            0/1 ← VcVerify(vk, x, y, π) takes the verification key vk, the input/output (x, y) of the
            computation f and the proof π and outputs 1 if y = f (x) and 0 otherwise.
        Any SNARK instance (e.g., Groth16 [19]) can be used to construct a VC scheme.

        Deposit Proof. To deposit coins to the smart contract, a client needs to give a proof
        showing the following relation for a Merkle tree T with a root rootdep :

           stdep : {pk, cm, rootold       new               new                           old
                                dep , rootdep , pathi : rootdep = T.Replace(index, 0, rootdep , pathi , cm)}   (2)

        In this construction, the function f that we want to verify is the replacement algorithm (i.e.,
        Replace) defined for the Merkle tree.

        Concurrent Updating Operations. During the construction process using VC, it is possible
        to encounter a situation where two users are simultaneously updating the tree. However, this
        does not present a problem. Both deposits will be processed since the smart contract only
        accepts the VC proof when the queue is full. Consequently, only one user (the faster one) is
        required to pay and is subsequently compensated for the computation cost. Meanwhile, the
        other deposit will be placed as the first element of the queue.

        5.4.2    Algorithms for On-Chain Mixer with VC
        Contract Setup. The ContractSetUp algorithm of a mixer with VC differs from the
        MPB method (cf. Section 5.1): An additional instance must be initialized for the verifi-
        able computation (cf. Section 5 in the full version of this paper [39]). The rest remains
        unchanged. In particular, we initialize a verifiable computation instance Πdep with the
        algorithm Πdep .VcInit with Cdep as input. We obtain two keys (ekvc        vc
                                                                           dep , vkdep ).


        Deposit Interaction. Fig. 4 shows the deposit interaction between a client and the mixer
        with VC, in which the client computes the updated root when depositing into the mixer.
           Client. The only difference between a mixer with the MPB and the one with VC is that
        the last client must compute and prove the valid computation of the new root in addition to
        cm and amt. The rest remains unchanged.
           Contract. In contrast to MPB, the smart contract now performs fewer calculations. The
        smart contract checks the client’s proof of the validity of the new root. If the proof is valid,
        the root of the contract is modified to match the client’s root.

        Withdraw Interaction. Because the verifiable computation only alters the deposit method,
        the way to withdraw coins in a mixer stays the same as in Section 5.1.
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                            16:15


 6      System Analysis

In this section, we prove that our improved mixers with MPB and VC both can guarantee
privacy, correctness, availability, and fairness, while they achieve different degrees of efficiency.


6.1     Privacy
6.1.1     Linking deposit and withdrawal transactions
Using a similar definition proposed in the AMR system [23], we first investigate the potential
for an adversary to establish a link between a withdrawal transaction and its associated deposit
transaction. We denote h as the height of the blockchain. Given a block height h, we define
CmpSeth as the set of commitments of deposits made by honest users within a mixer pool.
Within this context, for a given cm ∈ CmpSeth , we denote txdep (cm) as the deposit transaction
which includes cm. Given a deposit transaction txdep including the commitment cm, and a
withdrawal transaction txwdr with the nullifier sn, we say sn is originated from cm (denoted
       origin
as sn ← cm) if ∃(k, r) ∈ {0, 1}λ , s.t., cm = Com(k, r) ∧ snwdr = Hp (k, 0λ ). Therefore,
the adversarial advantage of linking the withdrawal transaction txwdr to its corresponding
deposit transaction txdep , can be quantified as the probability that an adversary correctly
guesses the commitment that originates the nullifier value in txwdr (cf. Definition 7).

▶ Definition 7 (Adversarial Advantage in Transaction Linking). Let A be a PPT adversary,
and txhwdr be a valid withdrawal transaction issued at block h by an honest user. Let snhwdr be
the nullifier included in txhwdr . We define the adversarial advantage as follows:

                                                                          origin
     AdvhA,tx = Pr[A(txhwdr ) → txdep (cm), s.t. cm ∈ CmpSeth ∧ snhwdr ← cm]


6.1.2     Linking deposit and withdrawal addresses
In practice, a user may utilize the same address to make multiple deposits or withdrawals
within a mixer pool [38]. Rather than linking individual deposit and withdrawal transactions,
the adversary may choose to target the linkability between addresses, specifically linking
deposit and withdrawal addresses controlled by the same user.
   Given a block height h, we denote DepAddrSeth as the set of addresses that are used to
deposit coins into a mixer pool from honest users, and WdrAddrSeth as the set of withdrawal
addresses of honest users.
   Given a deposit address addrd ∈ DepAddrSeth and a withdrawal address addrw ∈
WdrAddrSeth , we say addrd and addrw are linked if they belong to the same user, i.e., the
                                                                                  link
user controls both the private keys of addrd and addrw . We denote this as addrd ↔ addrw .
   Therefore, the adversarial advantage of linking the withdrawal address addrw to the
corresponding deposit address addrd , is the probability that an adversary can correctly
determine if they are controlled by the same user (cf. Definition 8).

▶ Definition 8 (Adversarial Advantage in Addresses Linking). Let A be a PPT adversary, and
addrw ∈ WdrAddrSeth be an address that has been previously used to withdraw coins from the
mixer pool before the block height h. We define the adversarial advantage as follows:

                                                                                link
     AdvhA,addr = Pr[A(addrw ) → addrd , s.t. addrd ∈ DepAddrSeth ∧ addrd ↔ addrw ]



                                                                                                        AFT 2023
16:16   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


        6.1.3     Privacy Analysis
        We present the following claims to analyze the adversarial advantages of linking transactions
        and addresses in our improved mixers. For detailed proofs, we refer the reader to the full
        version of this paper [39].

        ▷ Claim 9. Under the assumption that all underlying cryptographic primitives are secure,
        the adversarial advantage in linking a withdrawal transaction at block height h to the
        corresponding deposit transaction (cf. Definition 7) satisfies: AdvhA,tx ≤ |CmpSet
                                                                                      1
                                                                                          h | + negl(λ).


        ▷ Claim 10.     Under the assumption that all underlying cryptographic primitives are
        secure, the adversarial advantage in linking a withdrawal address at block height h to the
        corresponding deposit address (cf. Definition 8) satisfies: AdvhA,addr ≤ |DepAddrSet
                                                                                      1
                                                                                             h | + negl(λ).


        ▶ Remark. Note that the increase in deposit transactions will not always decrease the
        adversarial advantage in linking deposit and withdrawal addresses, because an address can
        be used to deposit multiple times in a mixer pool. We also remark that the deposits in the
        queue are not considered in our privacy analysis, because they are not finalized and do not
        contribute to the set of commitments CmpSeth and the set of deposit addresses DepAddrSeth .

        6.2     Correctness
        In the following, we prove that our system can guarantee correctness by demonstrating that
        the probability that an adversary can withdraw more times than deposits is negligible.
            Consider an adversary who deposits into the mixer via a transaction txhdep at block h, and
        the transaction includes the commitment cm. We define the adversarial advantage of double
        withdrawing as the probability that the adversary can generate two withdrawal transactions
        linking to txhdep (cf. Definition 11).

        ▶ Definition 11 (Adversarial Advantage in Double Withdrawing). Let A be a PPT adversary,
        which issues a deposit transaction txhdep at block h. Let cm be the commitment included in
        txhdep . We define the adversarial advantage as follows:
                                                                         
             AdvhA,ww = Pr[A(txhdep (cm)) → tx0wdr snhwdr
                                                        0
                                                             , tx1wdr snhwdr
                                                                          1


                                       origin             origin
                            s.t. snhwdr
                                     0
                                        ← cm ∧ snhwdr
                                                   1
                                                      ← cm ∧ h0 > h ∧ h1 > h ∧ snhwdr
                                                                                   0
                                                                                      ̸= snhwdr
                                                                                             1
                                                                                                ]

           Intuitively, double withdrawals occur when the adversary manages to generate two different
                                h1
        nullifiers, snh0
                      wdr and snwdr , both originating from the same commitment cm. However, the
        probability of this event is negligible (cf. Claim 12).

        ▷ Claim 12. Assuming that all underlying cryptographic primitives are secure, the adversarial
        advantage in successfully generating two distinct withdrawal transactions which correspond
        to the same deposit transaction (cf. Definition 11) satisfies: AdvhA,ww ≤ negl(λ).

        6.3     Availability
        Our system, comprising either MPB or VC, ensures availability. Similar to existing on-chain
        mixers such as TC [4] on Ethereum and TN [6] on BSC, our improved mixer can operate
        autonomously on smart-contract-enabled blockchains. It should be noted that a centralized
        regulator could affect the availability of an on-chain mixer. For instance, the regulator can
        impose sanctions [36] on on-chain mixers and require decentralized application frontends
        or Front-running as a Service (e.g., Flashbots MEV-boost relays) to censor mixer-related
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                                16:17


    Table 1 Deposit cost calibration over time. The first l − 1 clients’ cost in the li -th deposit queue
is calibrated by the total cost in the previous queue.

                deposit queue                      li−1                            li
                                                                                     C
                  first l − 1 clients              d0i−1                       0
                                                                              di = i−1 l
            Cost last client                       d1i−1                          d1i
                  total                 Ci−1 = (l − 1) · d0i−1 + d1i−1   Ci = (l − 1) · d0i + d1i



transactions [14]. However, users still have the option to utilize the command line interface
or intermediary addresses to bypass the censorship and interact with the on-chain mixer
smart contracts [40].

6.4     Fairness
To ensure fairness, our improved mixer employs a mechanism that ensures nearly equal fees
are paid by all l clients in the same deposit queue when updating the Merkle tree. The
approach involves each client in the queue, except the last one, paying an additional gas fee
of d0 in their deposit transactions to the smart contract. The contract then keeps track of
the accumulated fees, totaling (l − 1) · d0 . When it is the turn of the l-th client to update
the Merkle tree and clear the queue, the client will be responsible for paying the remaining
gas fees, denoted as d1 . Note that gas prices can vary over time, which means that the cost
for each client needs to be adjusted accordingly. To achieve this, the payment fees for clients
in the li -th deposit queue are calibrated based on the total cost of the li−1 -th queue, where
i ≥ 1. Specifically, if the total update cost of the li−1 -th queue is Ci−1 , then the average
cost for the previous l − 1 clients in the li -th deposit queue is calculated as Ci−1
                                                                                    l . Table 1
illustrates the deposit costs for clients in a queue. It is worth noting that while the cost of
the last client technically differs slightly from that of the remaining l − 1 clients, we can
prove that the improved mixer achieves fairness through the following analysis.
    We first provide the definition of fairness for an on-chain mixer.

▶ Definition 13 (ϵ-Fairness). Given two blocks b0 , b1 , and their corresponding gas prices
price(b0 ) and price(b1 ), we say a mixer achieves ϵ-fairness if the deposit costs cost(b0 )
and cost(b1 ) in blocks b0 and b1 satisfy |cost(b0 ) − cost(b1 )| ≤ ϵ · |price(b0 ) − price(b1 )|.

   We proceed to prove that our improved mixer can achieve ϵ-fairness when adopting the
deposit cost calibration design in Table 1.

▷ Claim 14. Given a timeframe T covers at least two deposit queues li−1 and li , whose final
deposits occur in block bli−1 and bli respectively. Assuming that the deposit gas for updating
the Merkle tree in different queues is constant, denoted as gasupdate , then our improved
mixer can achieve ϵ-fairness in the timeframe, where ϵ = gasupdate .


6.5     Efficiency
6.5.1     Efficiency for On-Chain Mixer with MPB
Compared to the basic on-chain mixer design (cf. Section 4), our improved mixer system
offers enhanced efficiency. We consider a deposit Merkle tree with a size of n. In a basic
on-chain mixer, the computation cost for l deposits is l · O (log(n)) as the entire Merkle




                                                                                                            AFT 2023
16:18   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


        tree for each deposit needs to be updated. However, in our improved mixer design with
        an l-length deposit queue, the Merkle tree only needs to be updated once per l deposits.
        Therefore, the computation cost for l deposits is l + O (log(n)).
            We further define the ratio as γ = l+O(log(n))
                                                l·O(log(n)) to quantify the times of the saving deposit
        cost in our improved mixer compared to the basic mixer solution. Note that the deposit
                                                                                     l
        queue size l is much smaller than the Merkle tree size n; therefore, γ = O(log(n)) + O(log(n))
                                                                                                 l     ≈
        O(log(n))
            l     . The larger the queue size l, the more deposit cost clients can save. However, the
        finalization time of the deposit is also increasing over l. We should properly choose the size l
        to deal with the trade-off between the deposit cost and finalization time. We will provide
        the detailed evaluation results in Section 7.2.


        6.5.2      Efficiency for On-Chain Mixer with VC
        Thanks to VC, the deposit cost in a mixer can further be reduced. Consider that the
        computation cost of verifying an updated Merkle tree root is costVc, and the cost of generating
        an updated Merkle tree root is costGc. Therefore, in a basic on-chain mixer, the computation
        cost for l deposits is l · O (log(n)) · costGc as the Mekle tree is updated per deposit. The
        computation cost for l deposits in an improved mixer with VC is l+O (log(n))·costVc+costGc.
                                                                                                      costGc
                                                                                           costVc+ O(log(n))
        The deposit cost saving is γ vc = l+O(log(n))·costVc+costGc
                                             l·O(log(n))·costGc
                                                                             l
                                                                    = O(log(n))·costGc +        l·costGc       ≈
                   costGc
        costVc+ O(log(n))
             l·costGc     .
                         Note that in verifiable computations, the computation cost of verification
        costVc is inferior to the cost of proof generation costGc. Therefore, an on-chain mixer with
        verifiable computations can reduce deposit costs more than one with MPB. Section 7.4 will
        provide more quantification results.


         7      Evaluation
        In this section, we implement our improved mixer designs and evaluate their performance.

        Cryptographic Primitives. We adopt Groth’s zk-SNARK, Groth16 [19], as our instance of
        zk-SNARK owing to its efficiency in terms of its proof size and the calculations required by
        the verifier. Although the original Groth16 does not have simulation intractability proof, it
        is recently proven to achieve weak simulation extractability [8]. We elaborate more on the
        discussion in the full version of this paper [39]. We employ the Pedersen hash function [26]
        for Hp and the MiMC hash function [7] for H2p , as cryptographic hash functions. Compared
        to arithmetic circuits that rely on other hash functions, such as Jubjub [3], arithmetic circuits
        that employ MiMC hash can produce a smaller number of constraints and operations. In
        addition to being created exclusively for SNARK applications, MiMC hash functions are also
        very gas-efficient for Ethereum smart contract applications.

        Software Setup. For the arithmetic circuit design, we leverage the Circom library [9] to
        build the withdrawal circuit, Cwdr , for the relation specified in Equation 1. We utilize
        Groth16[19] proof system implemented by the snarkjs package [10] to construct the client’s
        algorithms.. We establish a trusted environment for evaluating the mixer smart contract and
        clients. We deploy the on-chain mixer system on the EVM ganache [2].

        Hardware Setup. We perform our experiment on a standard desktop system with an 11th
        Gen Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-11800H with 2.30G CPU and 16GB RAM in configuration.
 Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                                                                                                         16:19


               7


                                                                                  Expected Finalization Time (h)
                                                                                                                             0.1 ETH pool, = 269 blocks
               6                                                                                               200           1 ETH pool, = 136 blocks

Deployment Costs
               5                                                                                                             10 ETH pool, = 156 blocks
                                                                                                               150
               4                                                                                                             100 ETH pool, = 232 blocks



                                                                                             final ( , l)
  in Gas (×106 )
               3                                                                                               100
               2                                                                                                   50
               1
               0                                                                                                    0
                         10           15          20         25          30                                             21     22      23       24      25      26       27      28
                                           Merkle Tree Depth                                                                                Desposit-Queue Size


    Figure 7 Cost of deploying the MPB smart     Figure 8 Expected deposit finalization time
 contract with different Merkle tree sizes.  in TC  ETH pools with various deposit queue sizes.

               11             deposit cost in TC: 1,111,030 gas                                                    11          deposit cost in TC: 1,111,030 gas
               10                                             Merkle Tree Depth                                    10
                9                                                                                                   9
Deposit Gas Cost                                                                  Deposit Gas Cost
                8                                                       10                                          8                                     Merkle Tree Depth = 20
                7                                                       15                                          7                                       Merkle Pyramid Builder
                6                                                                                                   6
  in Gas (×105 )                                                                    in Gas (×105 )
                                                                        20                                                                                  Merkle Pyramid Builder
                5                                                       25                                          5                                       +Verifiable Computation
                4                                                       30
                                                                                                                    4
                3                                                                                                   3
                2                                                          146k                                     2
                1                                                                                                   1
                    21         22      23    24     25     26       27      28                                          21     22      23    24     25     26           27      28
                                         Desposit-Queue Size                                                                             Desposit-Queue Size

     Figure 9 Average deposit costs per client for   Figure 10 Average on-chain deposit costs per
 various queue sizes and Merkle tree depths. The client for various deposit queue sizes. The VC
 deposit cost in TC (dashed line) is ≈ 1.1M gas. approach can further reduce the deposit cost.


 7.1                Evaluating Merkle Pyramid Builder Costs
 We evaluate the performance of the MPB system using different configurations of Merkle
 tree depths (i.e., d = 10, 15, 20, 25, 30) and deposit queue lengths (l = 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, 64, 128).

 On-chain Deployment Costs. Fig. 7 shows the expense associated with deploying smart
 contracts. The Merkle tree depth does not have a huge influence on the deployment costs:
 the total cost is always between 6M and 7M gas. However, the deployment cost is a one-time
 expense that can be amortized over the duration of the contract.

 On-chain Deposit Costs. Fig. 9 provides a visualization of the cost reduction achieved
 by increasing the size of the deposit queue. We observe that after reducing or raising the
 depth of the Merkle tree, the cost decreases or increases, accordingly. Note that reducing the
 depth of the Merkle tree reduces the number of users, while raising the depth significantly
 increases the time required to compute the withdrawal proof. We can also observe that for a
 deposit queue of length 128, the gas costs are around 146K, which is consistent amongst
 the various Merkle tree depths. Figure 9 also shows that this cost is merely 17 of the cost of
 depositing in TC. Note that the costs associated with the deposit queue with a size of one,
 would roughly correspond to those of TC.

 7.2                Evaluating Deposit Finalization Time
 The deposit queue sizes will affect the deposit finalization time, i.e., the time that users need
 to wait for their deposits to be updated in the Merkle tree. To quantify the waiting time,
 we crawl the historical deposits in the TC four ETH pools (i.e., 0.1, 1, 10, and 100 ETH
 pools) over time. As shown in the full version of this paper [39], from October 1st, 2020 to



                                                                                                                                                                                      AFT 2023
16:20   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


          1.0                                                                                     400
          0.9                                                                                                                  TC deposit txs
          0.8                                                                                     300                          All Ethereum txs


                                                                                    Gas Price (Gwei)
          0.7
          0.6
        CDF
          0.5                                                                                     200
          0.4                                    Gas price diff. for 1 day
          0.3                                    Gas price diff. for 2 days
          0.2                                    Gas price diff. for 3 days                       100
          0.1                                    Gas price diff. for 7 days
          0.0                                                                                          0
                0     50   100         150        200         250             300                      2020   2021          2022              2023
                           Gas Price Difference (Gwei)                                                               Time

            Figure 11 Distribution of gas price differences    Figure 12 Average gas price of TC deposit
        for TC deposit transactions.                        transactions over time.


        August 8th, 2022 (i.e., the date when Office of Foreign Assets Control (OFAC) announced
        the sanctions against TC), the average number of daily deposits in the four pools is 51 ± 25.
        Even after the OFAC sanctions’ announcement, the average number is still 9 ± 8. Therefore,
        when the deposit queue size is set as 32, users merely need to wait for less than 4 days on
        average to ensure their deposits are finalized in a TC pool adopting our MPB method.
            To further quantify the expected finalization time, we define ∆ as the average timeframe
        between two deposits. Therefore, the expected finalization time Ef inal (∆, l) of a client in a
                                                         Pl
        deposit queue with the size l is Ef inal (∆, l) = i=1 1l · (l − i) · ∆ = (l−1)·∆
                                                                                    2    .
            Based on our empirical data, we can calculate that the average timeframes between two
        deposits in the TC 0.1, 1, 10, and 100 are 269, 136, 156, and 232 blocks respectively. Fig. 8
        shows the expectation of the deposit finalization time when choosing different deposit queue
        sizes for TC ETH pools. Note that we set the block timeframe as 12s, which corresponds to
        the slot time in the post-merge Ethereum. The results indicate that the expected deposit
        finalization time increases linearly over the deposit queue size.

        7.3         Evaluating Deposit Gas Prices
        In the following, we leverage the gas prices of TC historical deposit transactions to quantify
        our improved mixer’s fairness.
            Fig. 12 shows the average gas price of TC deposit transactions and all Ethereum trans-
        actions over time. We observe that generally, the TC deposit transactions have almost the
        same average gas price as other Ethereum transactions. To further measure the variance
        of gas price, we calculate the differences between sequential daily deposits in TC ETH pools.
        As shown in Fig. 11, we plot the distribution of the gas price differences for the deposits
        in sequential n days, where n = 1, 2, 3 and 7. We observe that more than 80% gas price
        differences in n(n ≤ 7) days are inferior to 30 GWei. Therefore, if we set the expected deposit
        finalization time as less than 7 days, the deposit cost differences between the last client and
        other clients in the same queue are inferior to 30 GWei × gasupdate . Recall that gasupdate is
        the total gas consumed for updating the Merkle tree in an on-chain mixer (cf. Section 6.4).
            When setting the deposit queue size as 25 , and the Merkle tree depth as 20, we have
        gasupdate = 25 × 1.78 × 105 = 5.69M gas (cf. Fig. 9). We can further calculate that the cost
        difference is 5.69 × 106 × 30 × 109 Wei = 1.7 × 1017 Wei = 0.17 ETH.

        7.4         Evaluating Verifiable Computation Costs
        TC supports anonymity mining [35] to incentivize users to user their ETH mixer pool. In
        order to claim the anonymity mining rewards, users can provide the Merkle tree roots to
        show their deposit and withdrawal transactions have already been successfully performed.
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                      16:21


This design is similar to our deposit with off-chain proof generation. Therefore, to evaluate
the deposit cost of VC, we adopt a similar circuit of TC anonymity mining3 to implement
the VC deposit contract and test it locally. Our evaluation shows that the average deposit
cost of VC is approximately 436K gas. Thus, the saving deposit cost ratio of a client in a
                                                1M
deposit queue of size l can be calculated as 436K·l  = 2.29
                                                         l .
    Note that in the improved mixer with VC, the smaller the queue size (i.e., l) is, the more
cost per client can save (cf. Fig. 10). Therefore, when combining VC and MPB approaches,
our improved mixer enables a significant improvement in the cost with a small deposit queue
size (e.g., 4 or 8), which allows a short waiting time for deposit finalization.

    8   Related Work
Blockchain Add-On Privacy Solutions. To enhance the privacy of non-privacy-preserving
blockchains such as Bitcoin and Ethereum, numerous mixers are proposed in academic works
or deployed in practice. For instance, Meiklejohn et al. [25] propose a smart-contract-based
mixer named Möbius, which adopts linkable ring signatures and stealth addresses [28] to
hide the addresses of transaction senders and recipients. However, the anonymity set size of
Möbius is limited by the ring size, and the withdrawal cost increases linearly with the ring
size. CoinJoin [24] is a Bitcoin mixer, which enables a user can collaborate with others to
merge multiple transactions, thereby breaking the linkability between addresses. On-chain
mixers [4, 6, 5, 1] are inspired by Zerocash [32] and are running on smart-contract-enabled
blockchains to obfuscate the link between the users’ deposit and withdrawal using ZKPs.
Le et al. propose an on-chain mixer design [23], which incentivizes users to participate in a
mixer. Shortly after [23], TC follows by adding anonymity mining as a deposit reward scheme
for attracting users [35]. In addition to blockchain add-on privacy solutions, several existing
works have proposed privacy-enhanced and regulated solutions for Central Bank Digital
Currencies (CBDCs). These solutions include UTT [34], PEReDi [21], and Platypus [43].
Despite their theoretical promise, the practicality of implementing and running these solutions
efficiently on the Ethereum platform remains unclear.

Blockchain Mixer Analysis. Although mixers can break the linkability among user addresses
by design, in practice, mixers are not being used properly. Wu et al. [42] propose a generic
abstraction model for Bitcoin mixers. They identify two mixing mechanisms, i.e., swapping
and obfuscating, and present a method to reveal mixing transactions that leverage the
obfuscating mechanism. Through analyzing the mixing activities in TC [4] and TN [6],
Wang et al. [38] proposes five heuristics to link the deposit and withdrawal addresses of
on-chain mixers. Their heuristics can reduce a mixer’s anonymity set size by more than
34.18%. Moreover, Wang et al.’s measurement work [38] also indicates that the reward
mechanism of on-chain mixers tends to attract profit-driven but privacy-ignorant users.

    9   Discussion
Trade-Off Between Latency and Cost. In our MPB mixer design, typically, the last
depositor in a deposit queue initiates the Merkle tree update when the queue is full. However,
we recognize the potential for including an optional function that allows any user to pay and
trigger this update. This functionality would enable users to achieve faster-verified deposits


3
    https://github.com/tornadocash/tornado-anonymity-mining




                                                                                                  AFT 2023
16:22   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


        by updating the tree without waiting for the queue to be filled. In such cases, the tree
        updater must strike a balance between latency and cost since the accumulated fees in an
        unfilled queue may not fully compensate for the updater’s expenses.

        Trade-Off Between Storage and Computation. In MPB, the subtree is updated with every
        deposit to optimize on-chain storage costs while maintaining a balance between storage and
        update efficiency. Specifically, in MPB, the total computation cost of updating a queue with
        l deposits is l + O (log(n)), and the storage cost is O (log l). An alternative approach is to
        use a more “naive” batch update, where the mixer contract keeps a record of all l deposits in
        the queue and updates the subtree per queue. In this case, the total computation cost is still
        l + O (log(n)), and the storage cost is O (l).

        Comparison with Other Data Structures. In addition to MPB, we have also conducted
        tests on other data-authenticated structures, such as dynamic RSA accumulators [11, 27, 12].
        Accumulators offer the capability to generate proofs that demonstrate the membership of
        potential items in a specific set. One notable advantage of RSA accumulators is their efficiency
        in adding new items to an existing set. However, we observe that they do not effectively
        reduce deposit appending costs, as the mixer contract is required to perform expensive
        primality testing to identify prime numbers [20] as commitments on-chain. Furthermore, the
        process of proving membership in zero knowledge will incur significantly higher expenses.

        Weak Simulation Extractability of Groth16. It is well-known that Groth16 zk-SNARK is
        malleable. Hence, one needs to use a deterministic nullifier to prevent double withdrawing.
        Also, in our design (refer to Eq. 1), it is necessary for a user to supply the associated private
        key sk as part of the private input (i.e., witness). This measure is taken to mitigate the risk
        that an adversary can replace a public key with his public key. However, in practice, we
        only need to use the public as a parameter to the public input. This is considered secure,
        given that Groth16 is recently proven to have the weak simulation extractability property [8].
        This means that an adversary cannot produce a valid proof for a different input instance.
        Adopting this approach can notably reduce the proof generation costs for provers.

         10     Conclusion
        This paper investigates how to reduce the deposit cost of on-chain mixers. We first propose a
        design named MPB, which batches deposits in a queue and updates the Merkle tree per batch.
        This methodology reduces the Merkle tree update times and, thus, decreases the deposit cost.
        Specifically, our evaluation results show that MPB can achieve 7× fewer costs for depositing
        than state-of-the-art on-chain mixers. Moreover, we leverage off-chain verification to reduce
        the cost further. We also prove that our improved on-chain mixer designs can guarantee
        correctness, privacy, availability, efficiency, and fairness. We hope our work can engender
        further research into more secure and user-friendly on-chain mixers.


              References
         1    Cyclone. Available at: https://cyclone.xyz/bsc.
         2    Ganache. Available at: https://trufflesuite.com/ganache/.
         3    Jubjub. Available at: https://z.cash/technology/jubjub/.
         4    Tornado cash. Available at: https://tornado.cash/, before August 8th, 2022.
         5    Typhoon.cash. Available at: https://typhoon.cash/.
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                          16:23


 6   Typhoon.network. Available at: https://app.typhoon.network/.
 7   Martin Albrecht, Lorenzo Grassi, Christian Rechberger, Arnab Roy, and Tyge Tiessen. Mimc:
     Efficient encryption and cryptographic hashing with minimal multiplicative complexity. In
     Advances in Cryptology - ASIACRYPT 2016 - 22nd International Conference on the Theory
     and Application of Cryptology and Information Security, Hanoi, Vietnam, December 4-8, 2016,
     Proceedings, Part I, pages 191–219. Springer, 2016.
 8   Karim Baghery, Markulf Kohlweiss, Janno Siim, and Mikhail Volkhov. Another look at
     extraction and randomization of groth’s zk-snark. In Financial Cryptography and Data
     Security: 25th International Conference, FC 2021, Virtual Event, March 1–5, 2021, Revised
     Selected Papers, Part I 25, pages 457–475. Springer, 2021.
 9   Jordi Baylina, Kobi Gurkan, Roman Semenov, Alexey Pertsev, adria0, Ehud Ben-Reuven,
     arnaucube, Eduard S., and Marta Bellés. circomlib, 2020. Available at: https://github.com/
     tornadocash/circomlib#c372f14d324d57339c88451834bf2824e73bbdbc.
10   Jordi Baylina, Kobi Gurkan, Roman Semenov, Alexey Pertsev, adria0, Ehud Ben-Reuven,
     arnaucube, Eduard S., and Marta Bellés. snarkjs, 2020. Available at: https://github.com/
     tornadocash/snarkjs#869181cfaf7526fe8972073d31655493a04326d5.
11   Josh Benaloh and Michael De Mare. One-way accumulators: A decentralized alternative to
     digital signatures. In Advances in Cryptology—EUROCRYPT’93: Workshop on the Theory
     and Application of Cryptographic Techniques Lofthus, Norway, May 23–27, 1993 Proceedings
     12, pages 274–285. Springer, 1994.
12   Dan Boneh, Benedikt Bünz, and Ben Fisch. Batching techniques for accumulators with
     applications to iops and stateless blockchains. In Advances in Cryptology–CRYPTO 2019:
     39th Annual International Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 18–22,
     2019, Proceedings, Part I 39, pages 561–586. Springer, 2019.
13   Dan Boneh and Victor Shoup. A graduate course in applied cryptography. Draft 0.6, 2023.
14   Chainalysis. Understanding tornado cash, its sanctions implications, and key com-
     pliance questions, 2022.   Available at:   https://blog.chainalysis.com/reports/
     tornado-cash-sanctions-challenges/.
15   Dmitry Ermilov, Maxim Panov, and Yury Yanovich. Automatic bitcoin address clustering. In
     2017 16th IEEE International Conference on Machine Learning and Applications (ICMLA),
     pages 461–466. IEEE, 2017.
16   Davide Frey, Mathieu Gestin, and Michel Raynal. The synchronization power (consen-
     sus number) of access-control objects: The case of allowlist and denylist. arXiv preprint
     arXiv:2302.06344, 2023.
17   Rosario Gennaro, Craig Gentry, and Bryan Parno. Non-interactive verifiable computing:
     Outsourcing computation to untrusted workers. In Advances in Cryptology–CRYPTO 2010:
     30th Annual Cryptology Conference, Santa Barbara, CA, USA, August 15-19, 2010. Proceedings
     30, pages 465–482. Springer, 2010.
18   Lorenzo Grassi, Dmitry Khovratovich, Christian Rechberger, Arnab Roy, and Markus Schofneg-
     ger. Poseidon: A new hash function for zero-knowledge proof systems. In USENIX Security
     Symposium, volume 2021, 2021.
19   Jens Groth. On the size of pairing-based non-interactive arguments. In Advances in Cryptology–
     EUROCRYPT 2016: 35th Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applications
     of Cryptographic Techniques, Vienna, Austria, May 8-12, 2016, Proceedings, Part II 35, pages
     305–326. Springer, 2016.
20   Joe Hurd. Verification of the miller–rabin probabilistic primality test. The Journal of Logic
     and Algebraic Programming, 56(1-2):3–21, 2003.
21   Aggelos Kiayias, Markulf Kohlweiss, and Amirreza Sarencheh. Peredi: Privacy-enhanced,
     regulated and distributed central bank digital currencies. In Proceedings of the 2022 ACM
     SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages 1739–1752, 2022.




                                                                                                      AFT 2023
16:24   Pay Less for Your Privacy: Towards Cost-Effective On-Chain Mixers


        22   Ahmed Kosba, Andrew Miller, Elaine Shi, Zikai Wen, and Charalampos Papamanthou. Hawk:
             The blockchain model of cryptography and privacy-preserving smart contracts. In 2016 IEEE
             Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 839–858. IEEE, 2016.
        23   Duc V Le and Arthur Gervais. Amr: Autonomous coin mixer with privacy preserving reward
             distribution. ACM Conference on Advances in Financial Technologies (AFT’21), 2021.
        24   Greg Maxwell. Coinjoin: Bitcoin privacy for the real world. In Post on Bitcoin forum, 2013.
        25   Sarah Meiklejohn and Rebekah Mercer. Möbius: Trustless tumbling for transaction privacy.
             Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies, 2018(2):105–121, 2018.
        26   Silvio Micali, Michael O. Rabin, and Joe Kilian. Zero-knowledge sets. In 44th Symposium on
             Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS 2003), 11-14 October 2003, Cambridge, MA, USA,
             Proceedings, pages 80–91. IEEE Computer Society, 2003. doi:10.1109/SFCS.2003.1238183.
        27   Ian Miers, Christina Garman, Matthew Green, and Aviel D Rubin. Zerocoin: Anonymous
             distributed e-cash from bitcoin. In 2013 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP),
             pages 397–411. IEEE, 2013.
        28   Malte Möser, Kyle Soska, Ethan Heilman, Kevin Lee, Henry Heffan, Shashvat Srivastava,
             Kyle Hogan, Jason Hennessey, Andrew Miller, Arvind Narayanan, et al. An empirical analysis
             of traceability in the monero blockchain. Proceedings on Privacy Enhancing Technologies,
             2018(3):143–163, 2018.
        29   Satoshi Nakamoto. Bitcoin: A peer-to-peer electronic cash system, 2008. Available at:
             https://bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf.
        30   Leonid Reyzin and Sophia Yakoubov. Efficient asynchronous accumulators for distributed pki.
             In Security and Cryptography for Networks: 10th International Conference, SCN 2016, Amalfi,
             Italy, August 31–September 2, 2016, Proceedings 10, pages 292–309. Springer, 2016.
        31   Phillip Rogaway and Thomas Shrimpton. Cryptographic hash-function basics: Definitions,
             implications, and separations for preimage resistance, second-preimage resistance, and collision
             resistance. In International workshop on fast software encryption, pages 371–388. Springer,
             2004.
        32   Eli Ben Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Christina Garman, Matthew Green, Ian Miers, Eran
             Tromer, and Madars Virza. Zerocash: Decentralized anonymous payments from bitcoin. In
             2014 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 459–474. IEEE, 2014.
        33   Peter Todd.   Merkle mountain ranges, 2018.   Available at: https://github.com/
             opentimestamps/opentimestamps-server/blob/master/doc/merkle-mountain-range.md.
        34   Alin Tomescu, Adithya Bhat, Benny Applebaum, Ittai Abraham, Guy Gueta, Benny Pinkas,
             and Avishay Yanai. Utt: Decentralized ecash with accountable privacy. Cryptology ePrint
             Archive, Paper 2022/452, 2022. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2022/452.
        35   TornadoCash. Tornado.cash governance proposal, 2020. Available at: https://tornado-cash.
             medium.com/tornado-cash-governance-proposal-a55c5c7d0703.
        36   U.S. DEPARTMENT OF THE TREASURY. U.s. treasury sanctions notorious virtual currency
             mixer tornado cash, 2022. Available at: https://home.treasury.gov/news/press-releases/
             jy0916.
        37   Friedhelm Victor. Address clustering heuristics for ethereum. In Financial Cryptography and
             Data Security: 24th International Conference, FC 2020, Kota Kinabalu, Malaysia, February
             10–14, 2020 Revised Selected Papers 24, pages 617–633. Springer, 2020.
        38   Zhipeng Wang, Stefanos Chaliasos, Kaihua Qin, Liyi Zhou, Lifeng Gao, Pascal Berrang,
             Benjamin Livshits, and Arthur Gervais. On how zero-knowledge proof blockchain mixers
             improve, and worsen user privacy. In Proceedings of the ACM Web Conference 2023, pages
             2022–2032, 2023.
        39   Zhipeng Wang, Marko Cirkovic, Duc V. Le, William Knottenbelt, and Christian Cachin. Pay
             less for your privacy: Towards cost-effective on-chain mixers. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
             Paper 2023/1222, 2023. URL: https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/1222.
Z. Wang, M. Cirkovic, D. V. Le, W. Knottenbelt, and C. Cachin                                           16:25


40   Zhipeng Wang, Xihan Xiong, and William J. Knottenbelt. Blockchain transaction censorship:
     (in)secure and (in)efficient? Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2023/786, 2023. URL: https:
     //eprint.iacr.org/2023/786.
41   Gavin Wood. Ethereum: A secure decentralised generalised transaction ledger. Ethereum
     project yellow paper, 2014. URL: https://ethereum.github.io/yellowpaper/paper.pdf.
42   Lei Wu, Yufeng Hu, Yajin Zhou, Haoyu Wang, Xiapu Luo, Zhi Wang, Fan Zhang, and Kui
     Ren. Towards understanding and demystifying bitcoin mixing services. In Proceedings of the
     Web Conference 2021, pages 33–44, 2021.
43   Karl Wüst, Kari Kostiainen, Noah Delius, and Srdjan Capkun. Platypus: a central bank
     digital currency with unlinkable transactions and privacy-preserving regulation. In Proceedings
     of the 2022 ACM SIGSAC Conference on Computer and Communications Security, pages
     2947–2960, 2022.
44   Haaroon Yousaf, George Kappos, and Sarah Meiklejohn. Tracing transactions across cryptocur-
     rency ledgers. In 28th USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 19), pages 837–850,
     2019.




                                                                                                       AFT 2023
