 Private Delegation of (Non-)Membership Proof
    Updates in Cryptographic Accumulators

Bence Soóki-Tóth1 , Botond Glasz2 , Alireza Kavousi3 , and István András Seres2
                               1
                                  Aarhus University
                            2
                              Eötvös Loránd University
                            3
                              University College London



      Abstract. A universal, dynamic accumulator is a verifiable data struc-
      ture that compresses a set of elements (e.g., unspent coins, issued public
      key certificates, etc.) into a succinct digest while supporting addition
      and deletion of elements alongside efficient proving of (non-)membership
      in that set. In many applications, valid (non-)membership proofs are
      a prerequisite to accessing a service (e.g., sending a private payment
      transaction, establishing a TLS connection, etc.). Typically, newly added
      or deleted elements necessitate updating all existing (non-)membership
      proofs per update. Thus, intermittently connected clients will possess
      invalid (non-)membership proofs whenever they reconnect. In this work,
      we design, implement, and evaluate algorithms for the RSA and bilinear
      accumulators that allow a resource-constrained client to privately dele-
      gate the updates of its (non-)membership proofs to an untrusted server.
      We define and prove security in a game-based framework under standard
      assumptions. We also study proof delegation in the batch setting. The on-
      line client algorithms are constant-time,√i.e., independent of the updated
      set size k, compared to prior O(k), O( k) works. The private delega-
      tion algorithms for membership proofs incur an asymptotically constant
      computational overhead for the server (e.g., 6.12× overhead when 210
      elements were added in the offline phase to the RSA accumulator) com-
      pared to the non-private membership proof creation algorithms.

      Keywords: Cryptographic Accumulator · Proof Delegation · RSA Ac-
      cumulator · Bilinear Accumulator · Membership Proof


1   Introduction
Imagine a client owning an element x in a set St at time t, e.g., unspent coins
in a cryptocurrency ledger, public keys in a key directory, etc. Suppose that
the set St is large, i.e., |St |≫ 210 , and more importantly, that it is dynam-
ically changing over time. In other words, operators can add and remove el-
ements from the set St , i.e., typically St ̸= St′ . We assume that St is rep-
resented succinctly as Acct , i.e., an accumulator value using a universal, dy-
namic cryptographic accumulator scheme [9,52]. Suppose that the client can
use a service (e.g., send a cryptocurrency transaction [56], end-to-end encryp-
tion), if it can prove with a (non-)membership proof πt,x (πt,x ) that x ∈ St
2       Soóki-Tóth et al.

(x ∈/ St ). We observe that in many applications of cryptographic accumulators
(e.g., stateless blockchains [14,24], registration-based encryption [37,40], trans-
parency logs [54]), clients are running on resource-constrained devices, and are
typically intermittently connected. Thus, whenever they reconnect after an of-
fline period, they possess an outdated (non-)membership proof disabling them
from accessing the desired services. Thus, the clients’ goal is to possess a valid
(non-)membership proof πt,x (πt,x ) corresponding to the element x at time t
without forfeiting their privacy, i.e., releasing anything about the element x.
Our goal in this work is fourfold as follows.

Proof Delegation Resource-constrained clients should be able to delegate the
   updates of their (non-)membership proofs πt,x (πt,x ) for all time t, element
   x to an untrusted server, we call proof-serving node (PSN).
Privacy The proof-serving node should not learn anything about the element
   x, it updates the (non-)membership proofs for. More precisely, two (non-
   )membership updates should be computationally indistinguishable.
Client Efficiency Ideally, the clients’ computational complexity in updating
   their (non-)membership proofs is in O(poly(log(k))), whenever the server
   inserts/deletes k elements into/from the set St , cf. Table 1.
Public Verifiability Serving thousands of users and updating their accumu-
   lator proofs is a resource-intensive task. Thus, PSNs should be financially
   incentivized properly to serve their clients. To that end, we devise efficient,
   publicly verifiable proofs for (non-)membership proof updates allowing a
   PSN to prove that they successfully completed their computational tasks.

We only trust the third-party PSNs for availability (i.e., the server is online), but
not for privacy or correctness. Note that there are already established efficient
markets (e.g., the Golem network [41]) for verifiably outsourcing computational
tasks [42].


1.1   The Necessity of Frequent Proof Updates

Recently, a growing body of literature has been developed that exposes the limits
of accumulators and related cryptographic primitives, such as vector commit-
ments. Christ and Bonneau [27] showed that there is no interesting asymptotic
trade-off between the accumulator’s digest size and the number of proofs that
must be updated. In other words, either for n elements the accumulator digest
is O(1)-sized and every membership proof must be updated or the accumulator
digest is O(n)-sized (i.e., the entire database is stored), and thus no proofs need
to be updated. The authors demonstrate that this impossibility result is univer-
sal and applies to all major authenticated data structures used in blockchains,
including cryptographic accumulators, vector commitments, and authenticated
dictionaries. As a concrete example, adding a single leaf to a standard Merkle
tree [55] changes the root and potentially every node on the path, invalidating
the witnesses/proofs for all existing leaves. This results in O(n2 ) total witness
updates to add n items. In a follow-up work, Bonneau et al. [16] show that
                      Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs            3

when inserting n new elements into a positive accumulator, then each mem-
bership proof needs to be updated ω(1) times. In fact, more is true, i.e., any
accumulator with succinct state (polylogarithmic size) must incur at least ω(n)
total witness updates when adding n items. Abusalah et al. [1] investigate the
same question of update frequency in the setting where a single element is added
to a positive accumulator. They found that in an accumulator with n elements
providing λ-bit security, essentially all proofs, i.e., n − negl(λ) proofs need to be
updated when a new element is inserted. These results underscore the inevitable
need for PSNs to make accumulators and vector commitments practical.


1.2     Applications

We detail three promising applications for delegating (non-)membership proof
updates privately in cryptographic accumulators.


Stateless Blockchains In traditional blockchains such as Bitcoin and Ethe-
reum, users can stay offline for a long time and simply broadcast a transaction
when ready. In stateless blockchain designs [14,24,65], users must constantly
monitor the network to update their proofs as the blockchain state evolves. If
they did not update their proofs would become stale, and they could not spend
their coins. Roughly speaking, the state of a cryptocurrency system at time t is
essentially the set St = {xi }ni=1 consisting of all the unspent coins in the system.
Each new transaction removes elements from St and inserts new unspent coins
into St , updating it to a new St′ . However, storing the entire set St is burden-
some for smaller clients.4 In a stateless blockchain, the full nodes store the entire
set St , while clients only store an accumulator digest Acct to the St . Whenever
clients want to spend a coin x, they can do so by issuing a valid membership
proof πt,x along with other authorization material, i.e., digital signatures, and
other proofs. Interestingly, in a privacy-preserving cryptocurrency system, such
as Zcash [7], clients issue a zero-knowledge proof-of-knowledge of owning πt,x ,
since clients would lose their privacy if they disclose which unspent coins they
want to spend. This design motivates the need for privately delegating the up-
dates of (non-)membership proofs in the stateless blockchain design context.


Anonymous Credentials with Revocations In anonymous credential sys-
tems, cryptographic accumulators are commonly employed to encode the revo-
cation state of credentials in a compact and publicly verifiable manner, enabling
users to prove (non-)membership of a hidden revocation handle. However, a
practical challenge is that accumulator witnesses must be updated whenever
the underlying set changes, which is problematic for intermittently connected
users such as mobile wallet holders. This paradigm underlies classical creden-
tial frameworks based on Camenisch–Lysyanskaya signatures [20,21] as well as
4
    For example, the set of unspent coins in Bitcoin takes up tens of gigabytes [31].
4        Soóki-Tóth et al.

pairing-based constructions [13]. Dynamic RSA and bilinear accumulators pro-
vide succinct witnesses and scalable revocation [8,57], but require users to update
witnesses whenever the accumulator changes. These designs make large-scale
real-world credential revocation system deployments5 infeasible. Our framework
extends this model by allowing users to outsource witness updates to an un-
trusted server while preserving unlinkability and public verifiability, thereby im-
proving practicality for intermittently connected users in large-scale anonymous
credential deployments, for example European Digital Identity wallet.


Registration-based Encryption Registration-Based Encryption [37,38] (RBE)
is a cryptographic primitive designed to eliminate the trusted key authority
present in Identity-Based Encryption [15] by replacing it with an untrusted “key
curator” that maintains a succinct digest of all registered user public keys. This
system suffers from the same efficiency bottlenecks as stateless blockchains, as
both rely on a dynamic global commitment that changes with every newly regis-
tered user. Just as spending a coin in a stateless blockchain invalidates the inclu-
sion proofs for other users, registering a new user in an RBE system updates the
global digest, forcing all existing users to download data and update their own
decryption keys to remain compatible with the new state. This is information-
theoretically impossible to avoid [16], i.e., users cannot simply generate a key
once and go offline; instead, they face a witness update burden that scales with
the number of new registrations (specifically Θ(n log n/log log n)), mirroring the
heavy bandwidth requirements that plague stateless cryptocurrency designs.


1.3     Strawman Solutions

A straightforward idea is to simply send the (non-)membership proof πt,x (πt,x )
to the PSN to update these proofs as the set St dynamically evolves over time.
This strawman solution certainly outsources (non-)membership updates, how-
ever, at the cost of sacrificing privacy. Note that the PSN can break privacy
by brute-forcing the (non-)membership verification checks, i.e., for instance, for
                                                                            ?
membership proofs, the PSN checks ∀si ∈ St : VerMem(Acct , πt,x , si ) = 1, which
holds iff. si = x. Assuming |St |= poly(λ) in the security parameter λ, this brute-
force computation can be carried out efficiently.
    To preserve the privacy of the outsourced element x, one might apply fully
homomorphic encryption on the outsourced (non-)membership proofs [39]. In
detail, the client could homomorphically encrypt the accumulator proofs πt,x
(πt,x ) and send the ciphertexts to the PSN, who completes the (non-)membership
proof update on the homomorphic ciphertext. This approach solves the problem
of privately delegating accumulator proofs, but yields a less practical solution
than applying our tailor-made techniques.

5
    European Digital Identity wallet [34] must support ≈ 450 million users by late 2026.
                                   Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs              5


                                                 Operator              Public bulletin Proof serving
                         Client
                                                                           board           node
                               1. Insert element sj

 Online                                         Process insertion
                                              (update accumulator)
 Time t                              Return                      Publish
                                   proof πt,sj               new digest Acct+1




   Of f line
                                                Process incoming
                                               insertions {si }k
                                                               i=1




Time {t + i}k
                                                           Periodically publish
                                                           digests {Acct+i }k
             i=1
                                                                            i=1



                                                          Request proof update
                     Blind proof πt,sj                       (send blinded
                                                                     ′
                                                              proof πt,s )
  Online
                                                                         j

                                                             Return updated             Update proof
                                                                     ′                     ′
                                                              proof πt+k,s                πt+k,s
 Time t + k
                                                                             j                  j

                                  ′
                   Unblind proof πt+k,s
                                          j
                     (updated proof)



Fig. 1: A sequence diagram illustrating the interactions of participants (cf. Sec-
tion 4) in a privately delegatable cryptographic accumulator scheme. In a private
delegation protocol for (non-)membership proof updates, at time t + k, the client
requests a proof serving node the update of an outdated proof πt,sj for a blinded
element sj to the latest valid proof πt+k,sj .


1.4                Technical Overview

In this work, our goal is to endow universal, dynamic accumulators with efficient
algorithms that allow a client and a server–also known as proof serving node
(PSN)–to update the client’s (non-)membership proofs privately, cf. Figure 1.


Syntax and Security Requirements We introduce four efficient PPT algo-
rithms BlindProof, BlindProofUpd, VerBlindProofUpd, and UnBlindProof, to allow
private delegation of (non-)membership proof updates in accumulators.
                                    ′
    The BlindProof(·, ·, πt,x ) → πt,x  algorithm is run by the client, and blinds the
                                      ′
(non-)membership proof πt,x to πt,x      . Given a blinded (non-)membership proof
  ′                                                      ′
πt,x the server runs BlindProofUpd(Acct , Acct′ , St′ , πt,x ) → (πt′ ′ ,x , aux) to update
the proof with respect to the current accumulator digest Acct′ and produces a
succinct proof of update correctness aux. Public verifiability of the update cor-
                                                                ′
rectness is checked by the VerBlindProofUpd(Acct , Acct′ , πt,x     , πt′ ′ ,x , aux) → {0, 1}
                                                                  ′
algorithm. After the private delegation UnBlindProof(·, ·, πt′ ,x , ·) → πt′ ,x is run
by the client to unblind πt′ ′ ,x and retain the updated proof πt′ ,x .
6       Soóki-Tóth et al.

    Intuitively, correctness for private accumulator proof delegation entails that
an honestly run private delegation should always yield a valid (non-)membership
proof with respect to the current accumulator value. We formalize our privacy
requirement for private accumulator proof delegation protocols in a notion we
call blinded membership proof indistinguishability. We require that the
                                                          ′
PSN server when seeing a blinded membership proof πt,x        should not be able to
tell for which element x the blinded accumulator proof belongs to. We formalize
this notion in Definition 5 as a classical indistinguishability game. Finally, we
demand computational delegation soundness from a private proof delega-
tion protocol. Specifically, a malicious PSN server should not be able to produce
a publicly verified update proof aux such that the unblinded (non-)membership
proof πt′ ,x is rejected by the accumulator scheme’s (Non)MemVer(·) algorithm.
    We present constructions for both the bilinear and the RSA accumulator
schemes, which yield client-efficient proof updates (that is O(1), i.e., independent
of the update size). We first provide a technical overview of private delegation
in the RSA accumulator.

Private Delegation of RSA Accumulator Proofs

Membership proofs In the RSA      Q accumulator for an element x, and set St , the
                                             s
membership proof is πt,x = g sj ∈S,sj ̸=x j , i.e., it is an xth root of the accu-
                                                              Qk
mulator digest Acct . Let St′ := St ∪ {xi }ki=1 and ∆ := i=1 xi . We define the
                                                ′
blinded RSA membership proof simply as πt,x        = πt,x · g r for an element r ∈ Zλ
                                                                  ′
generated by the client uniformly at random. Note that πt,x           statistically hides
                                            ′
πt,x . Thus, the client can safely send πt,x to the PSN server. Afterwards, the
PSN updates the blinded membership proof πt,x      ′
                                                       from time t to t′ by comput-
       ′          ′   ∆ ∆
ing πt′ ,x := ((πt,x ) , g ). The server also computes discrete logarithm equality
proofs aux to show consistency between the public accumulator digests (Acct ,
Acct′ = Acc∆                                                                 ′
               t ) and the (updated) blinded membership proofs (πt,x , (πt,x ) ).
                                                                                   ′  ∆
                       ′
The server sends (πt′ ,x , aux) to the client. Finally, the client can obtain its up-
                                                                ′
dated membership proof πt′ ,x by computing πt′ ,x := (πt,x          )∆ /(g ∆ )r using the
randomness r it generated at the beginning.

Non-membership proofs Recall,        if x ∈ / St , then gcd (s∗ , x) = 1(⇔ ∃(a, b) ∈ Z2 :
  ∗                       ∗
                              Q
as +bx = 1), where s = sj ∈St sj . The RSA non-membership proof proves the
co-primality of s∗ and x in the exponent. More precisely, the non-membership
proof in the RSA accumulator is πt,x := (a, g b ) for (a, b) ← Bezout(s∗ , x).
    One may be tempted to design a protocol that updates the Bezout-coefficients
corresponding to x. Assume St+1 = St ∪s′ . We can compute the updated Bezout-
coefficients (a′ , b′ ) ← Bezout(s∗ · s′ , x) as a function of (a, b, s∗ , s′ ) as follows.
                                                 1 − aus∗ s′
                              a′ := au ∧ b′ :=               ,                       (1.1)
                                                     x
where u = s′ mod x. Computing the expressions in Equation (1.1) in a privacy-
preserving manner turns out to be extremely difficult over Z. Thus, we take a
                     Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs               7

different and simpler approach. The high-level idea is that the client uses the
server as an untrusted Bézout-oracle. More precisely, first the client masks the
non-element x (instead of the non-membership proof) by computing πt,x ′ := x·q,
which hides x for a random prime q assuming the hardness of factoring and that
the primes are chosen from a large enough set. Afterwards, the client asks the
server to compute πt′ ,x ′ := (a, g b ) = (a, B) for (a, b) ← Bezout(s∗ , πt,x ′ ). Finally,
the client obtains the final non-membership proof as πt′ ,x := (a, B q ). We note
that this construction only satisfies a weaker notion of privacy, cf. Definition 6.

Private Delegation of Bilinear Accumulator Proofs

Membership proofs In the bilinear accumulator,Qthe accumulated set St is en-
coded as the accumulator polynomial pt (X) = si ∈St (X − si ), and the corre-
sponding accumulator digest is defined as the KZG polynomial commitment [48]
of pt (X), i.e., Acct := KZG.Com(pt (X)). The membership proof for an element
sj is the KZG commitment πt,sj = KZG.Com(qt,sj (X)) to the quotient polyno-
mial qt,sj (X) = pt (X)/(X − sj ). Papamanthou observes [58] that when a single
element is added to the set St+1 = St ∪ sn+1 , then one can simply update the
bilinear accumulator membership proofs as
                                                  s
                                                 n+1   −sj
                              πt+1,sj = Acct · πt,sj
                                                             .                        (1.2)

Treating newly added elements as unknown variables, it is straightforward to see
that Equation (1.2) suggests when k new elements {sn+i }ki=1 are added to St ,
i.e., St′ = St ∪ {sn+i }ki=1 , then we must compute a degree-k polynomial function
q ∗ (X) of the quotient polynomial q(X) committed in πt,sj .
     Motivated by the above technique, we define the blinded bilinear membership
            ′
proof as πt,x   = {KZG.Com(crs, rX i q(X)}ki=0 , where r is a uniformly random
element in Fp and k is the maximum supported number of added elements during
                                     ′
the offline period. Intuitively, πt,s  j
                                         is a randomized common reference string
encoding q(X) that the server can use to commit to q(X)q ∗ (X) for any update
polynomial q ∗ (X) of degree ≤ k, without ever learning q(X).

Non-membership proofs If sj ∈   / St , then pt (sj ) = yt,sj ⇔ ∃qt,sj (X) : pt (X) =
qt,sj (X)(X−sj )+yt,sj , where yt,sj ̸= 0. Thus, πt,sj := (KZG.Com(qt,sj (X)), yt,sj ).
Observe that after adding a single element sn+1 to the set St , we obtain the fol-
lowing recurrence relation for the bilinear non-membership proof elements.

                      qt+1,sj (X) = qt,sj (X)(X − sn+1 ) + yt,sj ,
                                    yt+1,sj = yt,sj sj − yt,sj sn+1 .

In Section 5.4, we show how these recurrence relations admit a simple and in-
teractive non-membership proof delegation protocol.

1.5   Our Contributions
In this work, we provide the following three contributions.
8             Soóki-Tóth et al.

Scheme            Accumulator      Update msg. size    Client cost     Server cost       Mem/Non-mem Batching Decentralized
    [18]        Merkle tree [55]        O(1)             O(1)        O(k log2 (|St |))       ✓/✗          ✗         ✓
    [4]            RSA [8]              O(k)             O(k)             O(k)               ✓/✗          ✗         ✓
    Section 5.3    RSA [8]            O(1)\O(1)        O(1)\O(1)      O(k)\O(k)              ✓/✓          ✓         +
    [68]          Bilinear [57]          O(k)
                                          √               O(k)
                                                           √         O(k log2 (k))           ✓/✓          ✓         ✗
    [45]          Bilinear [57]         O( k)            O( k)          O(k)                 ✓/✗          ✗         ✓
    Section 5.4   Bilinear [57]    O(1) (O(k))\O(k) O(1) (O(k))\O(k) O(k)\O(k)               ✓/✓          ✓         ✓

Table 1: Comparing related work on delegating privately (non-)membership
proofs in accumulators. The column “Mem/Non-mem” indicates that the dele-
gation schemes support (non-)membership proofs. The column “decentralized”
denotes whether the delegation schemes assume that an accumulator manager
knows the trapdoor of the accumulator (e.g., group order, crs trapdoor, etc.) or
not. Offline/preprocessing costs are written in parentheses. If a scheme supports
both (non-)membership proof delegations, then these protocols’ asymptotics is
separated by a backslash. + means that the property can only be achieved under
an append-only instantiation, i.e., one that does not support deletion.



Private accumulator proof delegation framework To the best of our knowl-
    edge, for the first time, we define private accumulator proof delegation and
    its security, privacy, and soundness in a game-based security framework.
Efficient constructions We construct the first efficient proof delegation pro-
    tocols for the RSA [9], and bilinear accumulators [57] that achieve privacy,
    public verifiability, and constant client complexity.
Open-source implementation We provide the first open-source implementa-
    tion of private accumulator proof delegation and evaluate its performance.
    Our code is publicly available at https://github.com/GlaszBoti/priva
    te-accumulator-proof-delegation.

Organization This paper is organized as follows. In Section 2, we review the
related work. We provide the necessary pertinent background in Section 3. We
describe our system model in Section 4. We introduce our constructions in Sec-
tion 5, and optimizations in Section 6. We discuss our implementation and per-
formance evaluation in Section 7. Finally, we conclude our paper in Section 8
with open problems and future directions.


2        Related Work

2.1        Accumulators and Privacy

The anonymous credential literature [20,22] often relies on cryptographic accu-
mulators to store revoked credentials [19]. These works typically do not provide
privacy for the witness update operation [52,19,62], i.e., the server knows which
witness it is updating. Even if they provide privacy-preserving witness update op-
erations, they do not offer poly-logarithmic update costs for clients [4,45] cf. Ta-
ble 1. To the best of our knowledge, there are two private membership proof
                    Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs        9

delegation schemes [68,18] that provide a constant-time client, a necessity in
real-world applications. The delegation scheme of [68] works in the accumulator
manager setting for the bilinear accumulator [68], i.e., incompatible with decen-
tralized applications. The scheme of [18] for Merkle trees applies heavy recursive
SNARK machinery, we wish to concretely outperform. Baldimtsi et al. create
new accumulators that hide the elements and set size, i.e., a so-called oblivious
accumulator [5]. In the applications we have in mind, the accumulated set is typ-
ically public. Barthoulot et al. explore delegating accumulator proofs privately
to a server in a generic setting [6]. They characterize what properties a generic
solution must satisfy, and they conclude that likely such a construction does
not exist. In contrast, we show non-generic techniques that are tailored to the
accumulator schemes at hand in a white-box manner. Thus, we can circumvent
their impossibility result. Bowe and Miers devised updatable membership proofs
for Merkle trees using SNARK recursion in the context of privacy-preserving
cryptocurrencies [18]. However, they provided neither security proofs for their
constructions nor implementation and performance evaluation. In contrast, in
this work, we do not resort to heavy techniques such as proof recursion.

2.2   Delegation of Cryptographic Computations
The study of securely delegating cryptographic computations to a malicious
server was initiated by Hohenberger and Lysyanskaya [44]. In particular, to our
discussion, outsourcing (modular) exponentiations is the most related research
direction [70,25,61]. These works mostly study the problem of outsourcing an
exponentiation g u ∈ G, where both the base g and the exponent u must be
kept secret from the helping server. Additionally, the server wants to ensure
the verifiability of the output g u . At a first glance, one may think that updating
(non-)membership proofs in certain accumulators (e.g., the RSA accumulator) is
“just” outsourcing an exponentiation to an untrusted server. Observe that in our
setting, these techniques are not applicable, since the client does not even know
the exponent u (derived from the newly added/deleted items) it wishes to raise
its outdated membership proof g. An added challenge we must solve is to show
that the output of the outsourced cryptographic computation is correct w.r.t.
the latest accumulator digest. The typical output verifiability notion considered
in the aforementioned papers is insufficient in our applications, as the server
must show validity to a public value, i.e., the accumulator’s latest digest.

2.3   Private Information Retrieval
The problem of privately delegating (non-)membership proofs for cryptographic
accumulators can be cast [45] as a Private Information Retrieval (PIR) prob-
lem [26]. Given a database of valid membership proofs Dt = {πt,sj }sj ∈S , the
client wants to obtain Dt [i] := πt,si for some index i ∈ I without disclosing the
index i to the server [45]. An added challenge in our setting is that the database
is dynamically changing; most PIR protocols do not support this efficiently [53].
There are a multitude of lower bounds for single-server PIR protocols, e.g., a
10     Soóki-Tóth et al.

              Notation Description
                 x, sj      Element in the accumulated set
                  St        The accumulated set S at time t
                   n        The size of St , i.e., |St |:= n
                   k        The number of added elements from t to t′
                   l        The number of deleted elements from t to t′
                 Acct       The accumulator digest of the set S at time t
             πt,sj (πt,sj ) (Non-)membership proof for sj at time t
              Primes(λ) The first 22λ prime numbers in N
               Hprime (·) A hash function from {0, 1}∗ to Primes(λ)
                 Table 2: Notations used throughout the paper.



typical lower bound for PIR protocols in the information-theoretic setting states
that Ω(n) bits must be communicated by the server, where n is the database
size [43]. In the preprocessing setting, there is a tradeoff of online and offline
communication complexity. In particular, Corrigan-Gibbs and Kogan showed
the lower bound for any preprocessing PIR, i.e., C · T ≥ Ω̃(n), where C denotes
the bits of communication in the offline phase, and T denotes the number of bits
probed of the database in the online phase [29]. In contrast, we create protocols
where the client’s communication and computation complexity are both O(1) by
exploiting the algebraic structure of the underlying database Dt = {πt,sj }sj ∈S .


3     Background
3.1   Notations
The randomization of a group/field element x is denoted as x′ . We use a mul-
tiplicative notation for the group operation in both the elliptic curve and the
group of unknown order contexts. Deterministic assignment is denoted as =,
while probabilistic assignment or uniform random sampling from a set S is de-
noted as x ← S. Our notation is summarized in Table 2.

3.2   Universal, Dynamic Accumulator Syntax
A universal, dynamic accumulator Π is a tuple of six probabilistic polynomial
time (PPT) algorithms [8,5] as follows.

Setup(1λ ) → pp. Given a security parameter λ, this algorithm returns the public
    parameters pp. The pp is implicitly given to all of the following algorithms.
Add(Acct , x) → (Acct+1 , u). Given an accumulator Acct and element x, the ad-
    dition algorithm returns the new accumulator Acct+1 with x added to the
    set of accumulated values and an update information u.
Del(Acct , x) → (Acct+1 , u). Given an accumulator Acct and element x, the dele-
    tion algorithm returns the new accumulator Acct+1 with x being deleted
    from the set of accumulated values St and an update information u.
                    Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs         11

(Non)MemProofCreate(St , Acct , x) → πt,x . Given a set St at time t, an accumu-
   lator digest Acct , and element x, the (non-)membership creation algorithm
   returns a (non-)membership proof πt,x .
(Non)MemProofUpdate(Acct , πt,x , St′ ) → πt′ ,x . Given an old accumulator value
   Acct , an outdated membership proof πt,x , and the latest set St′ , the proof
   update algorithm returns an updated (non-)membership proof πt′ ,x .
(Non)MemVer(Acct , x, πt,x ) → {0, 1}. For a digest Acct , an element x, and a
   (non-)membership proof πt,x (πt,x ), the (non-)membership verification algo-
   rithm outputs 1 or 0 indicating accept or reject.

Definition 1 (Correctness). An accumulator scheme Π is correct if all hon-
estly generated proofs are accepted with overwhelming probability. More for-
mally, ∀x ∈ St :

      Pr(MemVer(Acct , x, MemProofCreate(Acct , x)) = 1) ≥ 1 − negl(λ) .

Definition 2 (Soundness). An accumulator scheme Π is sound if all adver-
sarially generated proofs are accepted with negligible probability. More formally,
∀x ∈/ St :

         Pr(MemVer(Acct , x, MemProofCreate(Acct , x)) = 1) ≤ negl(λ) .

3.3   The RSA and Bilinear Accumulators
We recall the efficient algorithms of the RSA [8,52] and bilinear [57,30] universal
dynamic accumulators in Figures 11 and 12.

3.4   Non-interactive Zero-knowledge Proofs
We recall the relevant syntax of non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK) proofs
following [11], and for the details and exact security requirements, we refer to [11].
NIZK arguments consist of four PPT algorithms that are defined with respect
to a relation generator algorithm R-Gen(1λ ) that, upon receiving some security
parameter λ, outputs a polynomial-time decidable relation R : {0, 1}∗ × {0, 1}∗
for which (ϕ, w) ∈ R, where ϕ is typically an algebraic statement in a ring FN
or in a finite field Fp and w is a valid witness for the instance.

 – NIZK.Setup(R) → (crs, τ ). For the relation R, the setup produces a common
   reference string crs and a simulation trapdoor τ . This possibly randomized
   algorithm may use public/private coins (a.k.a. transparent/trusted setup).
 – NIZK.Prove(R, crs, ϕ, w) → π. Given (ϕ, w) ∈ R and the common reference
   string crs, the prover returns an argument π.
 – NIZK.Verify(R, crs, ϕ, π) → {0, 1}. the relation R, the common reference
   string crs, the statement ϕ, and an argument π, the verification algorithm
   returns 0 or 1 indicating reject or accept.
 – NIZK.Sim(R, τ, ϕ) → π. Using the simulation trapdoor τ of the relation R,
   and the statement ϕ, the simulator returns a simulated proof π.
12     Soóki-Tóth et al.

   This work builds on NIZKs for the following efficiently decidable languages in
both groups of unknown order and elliptic-curve groups. All of the corresponding
proofs have constant size and constant-time verification.
   Discrete Logarithm equality (DLEq) [23,14].

              RDLEq = {(((g, u, h, v) ∈ G4 ); w ∈ Z) : u = g w ∧ v = hw }.                         (3.1)

   Polynomial Exponentiation Equality (PoEEq) A variant of the DLEq
proof for “exponentiating” with a polynomial, cf. [66].

               RPoEEq = {(((g, u, h, v) ∈ G4 , ϕ(X) ∈ Fp [X]); τ ∈ Fp ) :
                                                                                                   (3.2)
                                                           u = g ϕ(τ ) ∧ v = hϕ(τ ) }.


4    System and Threat Models

In this work, we apply a discrete-time model. A timer t ∈ N is only incremented
when an item is inserted or deleted from the accumulator with digest Acct , i.e.,
we update our timer from t to t + 1, and the digest to Acct+1 . Next, we describe
our system model illustrated in Figure 2.



                                            t
                                         en fs
                                   c urr proo
                                s
                            est hip                            5.
                      e qu bers                                   Re
                                                                     ad
                 .  R em                       f                        su
                4 )m                        o o  Proof serving             pd
                   n-                    pr                                   ate
               n o                 r n s             node
              (                 t u                                               s
                            R e
                        6 .          3. Reads accumulator digest

                                                                                st
     Client
                    1. R
                          e                                                 dige Public bulletin
                inse
                    rtio quests                                      ates
                         n/d                                 2.   Upd                board
                   of a      e
                        n it letion
                            em
                                            Operator

Fig. 2: Our System Model. 1 A client requests the insertion/deletion of an
item into/from the accumulated set. 2 Subsequently, the operator regularly
updates the accumulator digest and publishes it to a public bulletin board (e.g.,
a blockchain) to reflect its current state. 3 The client (and all other parties
as well) can read the latest accumulator digest and elements from the bulletin
board. 4 After an offline period, the client may request its latest valid (non-
)membership proofs from a proof serving node (PSN). 5 - 6 Finally, the PSN
serves the client with its latest (blinded) valid (non-)membership proofs.
                    Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs        13

Client We assume resource-constrained, intermittently connected clients, e.g.,
   a browser, a cryptocurrency wallet, smart watch, etc., that want to privately
   delegate the updates of (non-)membership proofs for an element x ∈ S (x ∈        /
   S). The client possesses a valid (non-)membership proof for an item x w.r.t
   Acct , and wishes to obtain a valid (non-)membership proof for Acct′ , where
   t′ > t. Naturally, the client does not know which elements were added or
   removed from the set S between time t and t′ .
Public Bulletin Board There is a trusted public bulletin board (e.g., a blockchain
   or an independent cloud server) readable by everyone, acting as a source of
   truth, i.e., it stores the current accumulator digest Acct at all times t, en-
   abling clients to verify (non-)membership proofs.
Operator The public bulletin board is operated by a set of incentivized par-
   ties. For instance, they are validators (i.e., stakers of proof-of-work miners) in
   the blockchain context or certificate authorities in the key transparency ap-
   plication. The operator appends new elements, removes necessary elements
   from the accumulator, updates the accumulator digest on the public bulletin
   board i.e., manages the accumulator.
Proof Serving Nodes The so-called proof serving nodes (PSNs) are untrusted
   third parties that are always online and, upon request, privately update the
   clients’ (non-)membership accumulator proofs. In practical accumulator de-
   ployments, PSNs and operators may be the same entities, but for conceptual
   reasons, we separate them in our discussion.


4.1   Supporting Various Set Operations

Clients can update the accumulated set St in various ways depending on the
application. We focus mainly on supporting the following two set operations.

Addition Users or the accumulator manager may add new elements to the
   accumulator i.e., St+1 := St ∪sn+1 . In our target applications, this operation
   models the creation of new coins in stateless blockchains, or the issuance of
   new public key certificates in key transparency logs.
Deletion Users or the accumulator manager may remove elements from the set,
   i.e., St+1 := St \ sj for some sj ∈ St . This operation models the spending of
   a cryptocurrency coin, or the revocation of a public key certificate.

We admit that there are more interesting set operations that we may consider,
e.g., element modification or element modification by some allowed function f (·),
i.e., st+1,j := f (st,j ). We leave it to future work to devise privately delegatable
accumulator schemes supporting other set operations as well.


4.2   Threat Model

As we show later, our protocols offer strong privacy guarantees, i.e., the server
cannot distinguish two (non-)membership proof updates for the same time in-
terval (cf. Definition 5). However, we acknowledge that the PSN can use various
14        Soóki-Tóth et al.

side-channel information to breach user privacy. For example, the PSN server
may take advantage of update request timing correlations, repeated queries, or
other correlation attacks. We consider these leakages to be orthogonal to this
work, as they can be circumvented by the appropriate use of anonymous com-
munication tools, e.g., Tor, virtual private networks, etc.


5      Privately Delegating Accumulator Proofs

We aim to endow any universal, dynamic accumulator scheme with four new
efficient algorithms.6


5.1     Syntax of Privately Delegatable Cryptographic Accumulators

We introduce privately delegatable cryptographic accumulator schemes, i.e.,
we endow universal, dynamic accumulator schemes ACC = (Setup, Add, Del,
MemProofCreate, MemVer, NonMemProofCreate, NonMemVer) with four new al-
gorithms i.e., ΠACC = (BlindProof, BlindProofUpd, VerBlindProofUpd, UnBlindProof)
enabling to privately delegate membership proof updates in ACC. For the sake
of notational simplicity, we define our syntax and security definitions only for
privately delegating membership proofs. It is straightforward to define them anal-
ogously for non-membership proofs as well.

Definition 3 (Privately Delegatable Accumulator). We say an accumu-
lator scheme ACC has privately delegatable membership proof updates if, in addi-
tion, it also implements the following four PPT algorithms ΠACC = (BlindProof,
BlindProofUpd, VerBlindProofUpd, UnBlindProof) where the public parameters pp
of ACC are assumed to be implicitly given.
                                     ′
BlindProof(Acct , x, πt,x ) → (πt,x      , st). Given a membership proof πt,x for the ele-
                                                                                                  ′
    ment x at time t, this algorithm returns a blinded membership proof πt,x                           and
    a state st.
BlindProofUpd(Acct , {xi }ki=1 , {yi }li=1 , Acct′ , πt,x     ′
                                                                ) → (πt′ ′ ,x , aux). For a blinded
                            ′
    membership proof πt,x , element x and the old accumulator value Acct , the
                                                                       ′
    server can update the blinded membership proof πt,x                       to a new blinded mem-
                       ′
    bership proof πt′ ,x so that it will be valid for the updated accumulator value
    Acct′ which corresponds to the digest of the set St′ := (St ∪{xi }ki=1 )\{yi }li=1 .
                                       ′
VerBlindProofUpd(Acct , Acct′ , πt,x        , (πt′ ′ ,x , aux)) → {0, 1}. For the digests
                                                                                      ′
    Acct , Acct′ it is publicly verifiable that the proof update from πt,x              to (πt′ ′ ,x , aux)
    was computed correctly. This deterministic algorithm returns a bit indicating
    whether the proof delegation was done correctly.
UnBlindProof(Acct′ , x, πt′ ′ ,x , st) → πt′ ,x . Given the latest accumulator digest Acct′ ,
    a blinded membership proof πt′ ′ ,x for the element x and a state st, this algo-
    rithm returns an unblinded membership proof πt′ ,x for x ∈ St′ .
6
     Four algorithms for membership proofs, and four for non-membership proofs.
                      Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs                 15

                                                           ′
Remark 1. We must blind the membership proof πt,x to πt,x    , otherwise the PSN
could link the membership proof to an item x by repeatedly calling the mem-
bership verification algorithm of the accumulator scheme. Our model is compre-
hensive as we allow additions and deletions in the offline period to the accumu-
lator, cf. the BlindProofUpd(·) function. Observe that the VerBlindProofUpd(·)
algorithm does not have private inputs, making the witness update publicly ver-
ifiable. We omit ACC from the subscript of Π as it is obvious from the context
which accumulator scheme is endowed with the private delegation algorithms.

5.2   Security and Privacy Requirements
We define the security and privacy requirements for privately delegatable ac-
cumulator schemes in a game-based framework. Intuitively, the delegated proof
updates when honestly computed are accepted with overwhelming probability.
Definition 4 (Correctness). Honestly run proof updates yield valid member-
ship proofs with overwhelming probability, i.e., ∀t, t′ ∈ N, ∀Acct , Acct′ , ∀x ∈ S,
we have
      Pr[ VerMem(Acct′ , x, UnBlindProof(Acct , Acct′ , πt,x , (πt′ ′ ,x , aux))) = 1 ]
          ≥ 1 − negl(λ) ,
       ′
where πt,x ← BlindProof(Acct , x, πt,x ), and

         (πt′ ′ ,x , aux) ← BlindProofUpd(Acct , {xi }ki=1 , {yi }li=1 , Acct′ , πt,x
                                                                                  ′
                                                                                      ).

   Intuitively, the blinded (non-)membership proofs should not leak anything
about neither the element x nor the unblinded (non-)membership proof.
Definition 5 (Blinded Membership Proof Indistinguishability). A pri-
vately delegatable accumulator scheme Π has blinded membership proof indistin-
guishability if ∀λ, ∀ PPT adversary A, ∃negl(·) s.t. the advantage of the adversary
in the indistinguishability game ( cf. Figure 3) is negl(λ). Formally,
                                                    1
                            Pr[GA,Π (λ) = 1] ≤        + negl(λ) .                          (5.1)
                                                    2

   We also introduce a relaxed notion of blinded membership proof indistin-
guishability. In this weaker privacy notion, the adversary cannot link the blinded
membership proof among exponentially many accumulated elements with non-
negligible probability.
Definition 6 (Weak Blinded Membership Proof Indistinguishability).
 Let x ∈R {0, 1}λ and πt,x a valid membership proof x at time t. Moreover, we
     ′
let πt,x := BlindProof(pp, πt,x ). Then, we say that a privately delegatable accu-
mulator scheme Π satisfies weak blinded membership proof indistinguishability if
∀(λ, t) ∈ N2 , x ∈R {0, 1}λ , and ∀A PPT, there exists a negl(·) function such that
the following holds:
                                     ′
                          Pr[A(pp, πt,x ) = x] ≤ negl(λ) .                    (5.2)
16      Soóki-Tóth et al.


        Adversary A                                       Challenger C
                                    pp
 x0 , x1 ∈ {0, 1}λ                              pp ← Setup(1λ )
                               x0 , x1 , Acc1     $
 Acc1 ← Add(Acc0 , x0 , x1 )                    b←
                                                 − {0, 1}
                                                π1,xb ← MemProofCreate(pp, Acc1 , xb )
                                    ′            ′
                                   π1,x b
                                                π1,x b
                                                       ← BlindProof(Acc1 , xb , π1,xb )
 output b′ ∈ {0, 1}



Fig. 3: The blinded membership proof indistinguishability game, cf. Definition 5.
The adversary A wins the game iff. b = b′ .


    In Section 5.3, we will see a private delegation protocol that satisfies weak
blinded membership proof indistinguishability, but it does not satisfy the stronger
notion of blinded membership proof indistinguishability.
    Next, we introduce the notion of delegation soundness. Intuitively, a mali-
cious PSN should not be able to produce a convincing (publicly verifiable) proof
update aux for a valid (non-)membership proof πt,x such that later the unblinded
(non-)membership proof is not verified by the accumulators (non-)membership
verification algorithms. We define the notion for membership proofs as follows.
Definition 7 ((Computational) Delegation Soundness). A privately del-
egatable accumulator scheme ΠACC is computationally delegation sound if ∀λ, ∀
PPT adversary A, ∀x ∈ St , ∀(t, t′ ) ∈ N2 s.t. t ≤ t′ , ∀πt,x : MemVer(Acct , πt,x , x) =
1, there exists a negl(·) function s.t.,
         h
      Pr MemVer(UnBlindProof(Acct′ , st, πt′ ′ ,x )) = 0
                                                                         i
                                                 ′
           VerBlindProofUpd(pp, Acct , Acct′ , πt,x , πt′ ′ ,x , aux) = 1 ≤ negl(λ).

Definition 8 (Private Delegation of Membership Proof Updates). A
universal, dynamic accumulator scheme ACC has a secure, private delegation
scheme for membership proof updates if ΠACC = (BlindProof, BlindProofUpd,
VerBlindProofUpd, UnBlindProof) satisfies correctness, delegation soundness, and
(weak) blinded membership proof indistinguishability.

5.3   Privately Delegating Proofs in the RSA Accumulator
Membership proofs Due to the RSA accumulator’s multiplicative structure,
            ′
a simple πt,x  = πt,x · g r randomization suffices for the blinded membership
proof,
Qk     while enabling efficient blinded proof updates. The server computes ∆ =
                                        ′       ′    ∆
   i=1 i ∈ Z and the exponentiation πt′ ,x := (πt,x ) to obtain the updated blind
      x
membership proof. Finally, the server shows consistency between the accumula-
                                                             ′
tor digests (Acct , Acct′ ) and blinded membership proofs (πt,x , πt′ ′ ,x ) by creating
a non-interactive discrete logarithm equality proof. We describe the four algo-
rithms for our privately delegatable RSA accumulator scheme in Figure 4.
                       Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs   17


  BlindMemProof(pp, πt,x ):
                 $
    1. st := r ←
               − Z2λ
         ′
    2. πt,x := πt,x · g r
                  ′
    3. return (πt,x   , st)

                                                                    ′
  BlindMemProofUpd(pp, St , Acct , {xi }ki=1 , {yi }li=1 , Acct′ , πt,x ):
    1. St′ = (St ∪ {xi }ki=1 )\{yi }li=1
                Qk              l
                                Q
    2. PT ←        xi , PR ←       yi
               i=1             i=1
                         −1
                                      
    3a. ∆ ← PT · PR mod |G|
    3b. ∆ ← PT (∈ Z) //assuming no deletion
                ′
    4. A = (πt,x   )∆ , B = g ∆
                                        ′
    5. π1 ← NIZK.Prove(RDLEq , (πt,x      , A, Acct , Acct′ ), ∆)
                                             ′
    6. π2 ← NIZK.Prove(RDLEq , (g, B, πt,x      , A), ∆)
        ′
    7. πt′ ,x ← {A, B}, aux ← {π1 , π2 }
    8. return (πt′ ′ ,x , aux)
                                          ′
  VerBlindMemProofUpd(pp, Acct , Acct′ , πt,x , πt′ ′ ,x , aux):
    1. {π1 , π2 } ← aux, {A, B} ← πt′ ′ ,x
                                   ′
    2. b1 := NIZK.Verify(RDLEq , (πt,x   , A, Acct , Acct′ ), π1 )
                                            ′
    3. b2 := NIZK.Verify(RDLEq , (g, B, πt,x   , A), π2 )
    4. return b1 ∧ b2

  UnMemBlindProof(Acc′t , st, πt′ ′ ,x ):
    1. {A, B} ← πt′ ′ ,x , r ← st
    2. πt′ ,x := A/B r
    3. return πt′ ,x



Fig. 4: The private delegation algorithms for membership proof updates in the
RSA accumulator. Step 3a of BlindProofUpd(·) (typeset in blue) can be efficiently
performed if the PSN knows the trapdoor of the group of unknown order, i.e.,
its factorization in case of an RSA instantiation. This is reasonable when the
PSN is also the accumulator manager.


Theorem 1 (RSA accumulator is privately delegatable for member-
ship proofs). Our construction in Figure 4 yields a secure, privately delegatable
membership proof update scheme for the RSA with element additions and dele-
tions under the strong RSA assumption and knowledge soundness of Figure 13.
   The proof can be found in Appendix B.1.


Non-membership proofs We describe the four efficient algorithms that al-
low a client to privately delegate the updates of their RSA accumulator non-
membership proofs, cf. Figure 5. The intuition is that due to the hardness of
18         Soóki-Tóth et al.


     BlindNonMemProof(pp, x):
       1. if x ∈ St : return ⊥
                    $
                  − Primes(1λ )
       2. st := q ←
              ′
       3. πt,x := x · q
       4. return (πt,x ′ , st)

     BlindNonMemProofUpd(pp, Acct , {xi }ki=1 , {yi }li=1 , Acct′ , πt,x ′ ):
       1. s∗ := s∈S ′ s mod |G|
                   Q
                       t
       2. {a, b mod |G|} ← Bezout(s∗ , πt,x ′ )
       3. πt′ ,x ′ ← {a, B := g b }, aux ← ∅
       4. return (πt′ ,x ′ , aux)

     VerBlindNonMemProofUpd(pp, Acct′ , πt,x ′ , πt′ ,x ′ , aux):
       1. {a, B} ← πt′ ,x ′
       2. y ← πt,x ′
       3. return 1 if g = Accat′ B y

     UnBlindNonMemProof(Acc′t , st, πt′ ,x ′ ):
       1. {a, B} ← πt′ ,x ′
       2. q ← st
       3. B ′ := B q
       4. return πt′ ,x ← {a, B ′ }



Fig. 5: The private delegation algorithms for updating non-membership proofs in
the RSA accumulator. The steps 1 and 2 of BlindNonMemProofUpd(·) (typeset
in blue) can be largely sped up if the PSN knows the trapdoor of the group of
unknown order, i.e., its factorization in case of an RSA instantiation. This is
reasonable when the PSN is also the accumulator manager.


factoring, for a non-element x, i.e., x ∈
                                        / S, x·q hides x for appropriately large uni-
form random primes. Although in many RSA accumulator applications, elements
are hashed to smaller primes, i.e., of size 256-bits, thus, the proposed protocol
requires the use of an HPrimes with a larger image space for privacy reasons. This
is because factoring a 512-bit semiprime is considered highly practical [67].

Remark 2. The implicit assumption in the protocol presented in Figure 5 is that
the size of the set that clients want to update their non-membership proofs for
(denote this set as S ′ s.t. S ′ ∩ S = ∅), has an exponential size in λ. In the state-
less blockchain application of Section 1.2, elements are coin identifiers hashed to
256-bit primes, giving an effectively O(λ)-size element space; the weak notion
suffices. In contrast, for certificate revocation lists with a bounded registry, this
construction should not be used without additional precautions. Note that if
|S ′ |∈ poly(λ), then it is trivial to break weak blinded non-membership proof in-
distinguishability: the server computes ∀x′ ∈ S ′ : gcd(x′ , πt,x ′ ). If gcd(x′ , πt,x ′ ) ̸=
                    Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs         19

1, the server found the element x′ for which the clients obtained up-to-date non-
membership proofs. Thus, this non-membership proof update delegation can-
not satisfy blinded non-membership proof indistinguishability (cf. Definition 5).
However, as we show next, it satisfies weak blinded non-membership proof in-
distinguishability, cf. Definition 6.

Theorem 2 (The RSA accumulator is privately delegatable for non-
membership proofs). Our construction in Figure 5 yields a privately delegat-
able non-membership proof update scheme for the RSA accumulator with element
additions and deletions under the strong RSA and factoring assumptions in the
random oracle model (ROM).

      The proof can be found in Appendix B.2.

5.4     Privately Delegating Proofs in Bilinear Accumulators
Next, we make the bilinear accumulator privately delegatable. Note that the
following bilinear delegation protocols do not support element deletions, i.e., we
only support element additions. We leave this gap to future work.

Membership proofs The high-level idea of our protocol for privately dele-
gating membership proofs in bilinear accumulators is as follows.       QnRecall, in a
bilinear accumulator ∀sj ∈ S ⇔ (X − sj )|f (X), i.e., f (X) := i=1 (X − si ).
Thus, the membership proof for an element sj is the KZG commitment to the
                                f (X)
quotient polynomial q(X) := X−s     j
                                      . Our idea is that the client sends a random-
ized common reference string crs′ to the PSN, where each monomial in crs′ is
additionally raised to rq(τ ), i.e., crs′ := {KZG.Com(rq(X)X i )}ki=0 , where τ is
the trapdoor of the KZG CRS and r is a randomizer field element sampled by
the client. The PSN uses crs′ in the update algorithm to commit to the updated
                                                        f ′ (X)        Qk
membership proof for the element sj , i.e., q ′ (X) = (X−s    j)
                                                                 = q(x) i=1 (X − si ).
The crs′ allows the PSN to update the membership proof supporting up to k
newly added elements. Finally, the client derandomizes the updated membership
proof to obtain the latest valid membership proof for sj . The private delegation
protocol is detailed in Figure 6.

Preprocessing. At first glance, BlindMemProof(·) algorithm imposes an O(k)
online computational cost on the client (cf. Figure 6) to generate the blinded
reference string crs′sj , where k is the batch size of newly accumulated elements.
However, we observe that the preparation of crs′sj is independent of the update
elements {xi }ki=1 . Consequently, the client can compute this blinded CRS dur-
ing an offline, preprocessing phase. In the online phase —when the accumulator
transitions from t to t′ —the heavy O(k) polynomial commitment is entirely del-
egated to the PSN. The client’s online computational cost is thereby reduced
to verifying a constant-size PoEEq NIZK (RPoEEq ) and performing a single un-
blinding exponentiation. This offline-online decoupling achieves a strictly O(1)
20         Soóki-Tóth et al.


     BlindMemProof(pp, Acct , St , sj , πt,sj ):
                     $
       1. st := r ←
                  − Fp
                    Qn
       2. q(X) ←       (X − si )
                     i=1,i̸=j
           ′
       3. πt,sj
                ← {KZG.Com(crs, rX i q(X)}ki=0
                    ′
       4. return (πt,s j
                         , st)
                                                      ′
     BlindMemProofUpd(pp, Acct , {xi }ki=1 , Acct′ , πt,s j
                                                            ):
                         k
       1. q ∗ (X) :=                          ′
                                                   , πt′ ′ ,sj , Acct , Acct′ )
                         Q
                           (X − xi ), W := (πt,s j
                       i=1
                        ′
       2. crs′sj ← {πt,s   j
                             }
       3. πt′ ′ ,sj ← KZG.Com(crs′sj , q ∗ (X))
       4. aux ← NIZK.Prove(RPoEEq , W, crs′sj , q ∗ (X))
       5. return (πt′ ′ ,sj , aux)
                          ′
     VerBlindMemProofUpd(πt,s j
                                , πt′ ′ ,sj , Acct , Acct′ , aux):
       1. π ← aux
                                     ′
       2. b = NIZK.Verify(RPoEEq , (πt,sj
                                          , πt′ ′ ,sj , Acct , Acct′ ), π)
       3. return b

     UnBlindMemProof(Acct′ , st, πt′ ′ ,sj ):
       1. r ← st
                                         −1
       2. return πt′ ,sj ← (πt′ ′ ,sj )r    mod p




Fig. 6: The delegation algorithms for privately updating membership proofs in
the bilinear accumulator.


online computational complexity for the client, making the delegation protocol
highly practical for resource-constrained devices.

Theorem 3 (Bilinear accumulator is privately delegatable). The con-
struction in Figure 6 is a secure, privately delegatable membership proof update
scheme for the bilinear accumulator, under q-Strong Diffie-Hellman (q-SDH)
assumption in the algebraic group model and ROM.

      The proof can be found in Appendix B.3.


Non-membership proofs Unlike the membership case, the following protocol
is interactive and requires k rounds between the client and the PSN – one per
added element – making it suitable only for small offline update sizes. Recall
that in the bilinear accumulator if sj ∈  / St =⇒ 0 ̸= (st (X) mod (X − sj )).
Thus, st (X) = qt,sj (X)(X − sj ) + yt,sj , where yt,sj ̸= 0. That is, for sj at time
t we have: πt,sj := (KZG.Com(qt,sj (X)), yt,sj ) [30].
                            Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs   21




  BlindNonMemProof(pp, Acct , sj , πt,sj ):
          q      (τ )
    1. {g t,sj          , yt,sj } ← πt,sj
                    $
    2. (r1 , r2 ) ←
                  − Fp , st ← (r1 , r2 , yt,sj )
                   r q    (τ )  r τq     (τ )
    3. crs′ := {g 1 t,sj , g 1 t,sj }
    4. πt,sj ′ ← {crs′ , r2 · yt,sj }
    5. return (πt,sj ′ , st)

  BlindNonMemProofUpd(pp, Acct , sn+1 , Acct+1 , πt,sj ′ ):
    1. {crs′ , yt,s
                 ′
                    j
                      } ← πt,sj ′
    2. Q := KZG.Com(crs′ , X − sn+1 )
          ′
        ′                      ′              s
    3. yt+1,s  j
                  := sn+1 · yt,s  j
                                    , aux ← {g2n+1 }
                 ′       ′   ′
    4. πt+1,sj ← {Q , yt+1,sj }
    5. return (πt+1,sj ′ , aux)

  VerBlindNonMemProofUpd(πt,sj ′ , πt+1,sj ′ , sn+1 , Acct+1 , aux):
    1. {Q′t , yt,s
               ′
                   j
                     } ← πt,sj ′ , {Q′t+1 , yt+1,s
                                             ′
                                                  j
                                                    } ← πt+1,sj ′ , A ← aux
               ′              ? ′
    2. b1 := (yt+1,sj
                      = sn+1 · yt,sj
                                     mod p)
                                                   ′            ′
                                                τ yt,s         yt+1,s
    3. rhs ← e(Acct+1 · Q′t+1 · g1                       j
                                                             /g1        j
                                                                            , g2 )
                                      ′
                                     yt,s                      ?
    4. b2 := (e(Acct · Q′t · g1             j
                                                , g2τ /A) = rhs)
    5. return b1 ∧ b2

  UnBlindNonMemProof(Acct , st, πt+1,sj ′ ):
    1. {Q′ , yt+1,s
               ′
                      j
                        } ← πt+1,sj ′
    2. (r1 , r2 , yt,sj ) ← st
                       −1          y
    3. Q := (Q′ )r1 mod p · g t,sj
                                 ′
    4. yt+1,sj := yt,sj sj − yt+1,sj /r2
    5. return πt+1,sj ← {Q, yt+1,sj }



Fig. 7: The private delegation algorithms for updating non-membership proofs in
the bilinear accumulator after a single element sn+1 is added to the accumulated
set; St+1 = St ∪ sn+1 . If multiple elements are added during the offline period,
the PSN and the client repeat this protocol sequentially for each added element.
22       Soóki-Tóth et al.

    One may be tempted to take a similar approach as in Figure 5, i.e., using the
PSN as a polynomial “Bézout-oracle”: the PSN could evaluate Bezout(st (X), ·)
for cleverly crafted input polynomials. This approach is not fruitful, as no matter
how one blinds the desired query polynomial (X −sj ) it seems difficult to obtain a
meaningful protocol. For example, masking with a random r, i.e., r(X−sj ) seems
to be at odds not only with privacy but also correctness, as Bezout(st (X), ·) is
non-linear. Masking (X − sj ) with higher-degree polynomials is pointless as one
can efficiently factor polynomials over finite fields due to Berlekamp [10]. Instead
of the previous approach, we study how (qt,sj (X), yt,sj ) must be updated after
a single element sn+1 is added to the accumulator. That is,
                                                                
     st+1 (X) = st (X)(X − sn+1 ) = qt,sj (X)(X − sj ) + yt,sj (X − sn+1 ) =
                                               = qt+1,sj (X)(X − sj ) + yt+1,sj .

The
 polynomial division computation     (i.e., yt,sj (X − sn+1 )/(X − sj ) = yt,sj ∧
 yt,sj (X − sn+1 ) mod (X − sj ) ≡ (yt,sj sj − yt,sj sn+1 ))) yields the following
recurrence relation for updating non-membership proofs in bilinear accumulators
after adding a single element to the accumulated set.

                      qt+1,sj (X) = qt,sj (X)(X − sn+1 ) + yt,sj ,              (5.3)
                                  yt+1,sj = yt,sj sj − yt,sj sn+1 .             (5.4)

The recurrence relations above suggest the following private delegation protocol.
The PSN server and the client can engage in an interactive protocol during the
update process for each element sn+1 added to the set St . In each round of
the non-membership update protocol, the client sends a very short randomized
crs′ allowing the PSN to KZG-commit to a randomized version of qt+1,sj (X).
Similarly, the server can compute and return a randomized version of yt+1,sj . At
the end of the protocol, the client can verify the correctness of the final received
non-membership proof elements. The full protocol is detailed in Figure 7.
Theorem 4 (Bilinear accumulator is privately delegatable for non-
membership proofs). Our construction in Figure 7 yields a privately dele-
gatable non-membership proof update scheme for the bilinear accumulator with
additions under the q-SDH assumption in the ROM.
      The proof can be found in Appendix B.4.


6      Batching and Other Optimizations
6.1     Client-side Batching of Private Delegation
The accumulators we study in this work support constant-sized batch (non-
)membership proofs [14,66]. These succinct batch proofs attest either that B ⊆
St , for membership, or that B ∩St = ∅, for non-membership. Thanks to the alge-
braic properties of these batch proofs, it is straightforward to modify our proof
                    Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs          23

update delegation protocols to the batch setting, cf. Figure 8. Essentially, the
same blinding technique works that we developed in Sections 5.3 and 5.4. More
precisely, we only need to change the semantics of the Blind(Non)MemProof(·)
algorithms, i.e., these algorithms work correctly even if we input batch (non-
)membership proofs instead of single (non-)membership proofs. In this setting,
the client either owns a batch of numerous set elements B := {si }m i=1 ⊆ St or
non-set elements B := {si }mi=1 ∩ St = ∅ and wants  to privately update a batch
(non-)membership proof πt,B (πt,B ) corresponding to B. We formalize this in-
tuition in Figure 8.

RSA batch (non-)membership proof updates An RSA batch membership
proof update for a batch B can be computed almost in the same fashion as
in Figure 4. However, one needs to slightly modify the Blind(Non)MemProof(·)
algorithm
 Q
          semantically, as it must now blind a batch membership proof πt,B :=
             s
g {sj ∈S\B} j , instead of a single membership proof, cf. Figure 8. A similar idea
works, cf. Figure 8, for updating a batch RSA non-membership proof. Note,
in this case, the batch size is leaked to the PSN, which, in certain applications,
might be untenable. To avoid this, one may revisit our initial ideas in Section 1.4
to take another direction in designing an RSA non-membership proof delegation
protocol.

Bilinear batch membership proof updates Observe that it is possible to
adapt our membership proof delegation to the batch setting for the bilinear
accumulator. In particular, we only need to modify the BlindMemProof(·) func-
tion, Figure 8. Crucially, the PSN cannot know whether it is updating a mem-
bership proof for a single element sj or for a larger batch B.

6.2     Server-side Batching of Private Delegation
Imagine that there are numerous querying clients (denoted Q) who request proof
updates for the same time period (i.e., from t to t′ ) for blinded membership
                  ′
proofs ∀si ∈ Q : πt,si
                       . At a high-level, in both accumulators (cf. Figures 4 and 6),
                                         ′
the server must compute ∀si ∈ Q : (πt,s     i
                                              )∆ for each queried element si , for some
public exponent ∆, derived from the updated elements. The server’s goal is to
compute all updated proofs efficiently e.g., in sublinear time in |Q|. However, as
we show next, asymptotic server-side batching is impossible in the generic group
model [64]. Thus, PSN operators cannot offer economies of scale in the naı̈ve
sense, which directly affects the business model of running a PSN, cf. Section 7.4.
Lemma 1 (Linear lower bound for component-wise exponentiation in
the generic group model). Let G be a cyclic group of prime order p in the
generic group model. Let g1 , . . . , gn ∈ G be independent random group elements
and let x ∈ Zp be known. Any generic algorithm that outputs (g1x , g2x , . . . , gnx )
must perform at least n oracle queries. In particular, the generic complexity of
this computational task is Ω(n).
      We present the proof of this lemma in Appendix B.5.
24         Soóki-Tóth et al.


     BlindBatchRSAMemProof(pp, πt,{sj }m
                                       j=1
                                           ):
                   $
                  − Z2λ , B := {sj }m
       1. st := r ←                 j=1 ⊆ S
            ′
       2. πt,B := πt,B · g r
                     ′
       3. return (πt,B  , st)

     BlindBatchRSANonMemProof(pp, {sj }m
                                       j=1 ):

                }m
       1. if {sjQj=1 ∩ St ̸= ∅ : return ⊥
       2. B := m  j=1 sj
                   $
       3. st := q ←− Primes(1λ )
       4. πt,B ′ := B · q
       5. return (πt,B ′ , st)

     BlindBatchBilinearMemProof(pp, Acct , St , {sj }m
                                                     j=1 , πt,{sj }m
                                                                   j=1
                                                                       ):
                   $
                  − Fp , B := {sj }m
       1. st := r ←                j=1 ⊆ S
                     n
                     Q
       2. q(X) ←           (X − si )
                          ∈B
                    i=1,si /
       3. crs′B ← {KZG.Com(crs, rX i q(X)}ki=0
           ′
       4. πt,B  ← {crs′B }
                     ′
       5. return (πt,B   , st)



Fig. 8: The batch delegation algorithms for privately updating batch (non-
)membership proofs in the RSA and bilinear accumulators. The rest of the algo-
rithms remain the same as in the non-batch setting, i.e., cf. Figures 4 to 6.


6.3      Batched Verification Proof

After this negative result, we now speed up the verification cost of m aux proofs
issued to attest to the correctness of m proof delegation tasks. In particular, con-
sider a client who blinds m membership proofs independently, but the PSN reuses
the same update exponent ∆ and produces one NIZK proof that all blinded
membership proofs were updated consistently with the accumulator transition.


RSA accumulator For {xj }m                                       m
                         j=1 ⊆ St with membership proofs {πt,xj }j=1 , the
                                 $                                            ′
client samples {rj }m   j=1 ←− Z2λ and sends blinded membership proofs πt,x      j
                                                                                   :=
πt,xj · g rj for all j ∈ [m] to the PSN. Given the update (St , Acct ) → (St′ , Acct′ )
with exponent ∆ (computed as in the base scheme), the PSN computes
                               ′
                       Aj := (πt,xj
                                    )∆    for all j ∈ [m],        B := g ∆ .

To efficiently prove correctness, the PSN and the client derive random Fiat–
                                              ′
Shamir challenges αj := H(Acct , Acct′ , B, {πt,x }m , {A }m , j) and aggregate
                                                 i i=1 Q i i=1
                           Qm      ′  αj                m    α
the instances into X := j=1 (πt,xj ) and Y := j=1 Aj j . The PSN then
                    Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs        25

returns {Aj }m
             j=1 , B together with a constant-size DLEq non-interactive zero-
knowledge proof of knowledge for the aggregated relation
                  ∃ ∆ : Y = X ∆ ∧ Acct′ = Acc∆       ∆
                                             t ∧ B =g .

The client computes X and Y , verifies the DLEq NIZK proof, and then un-
blinds each updated blinded witness locally via πt′ ,xj := Aj /B rj , recovering the
                                                           ∆
updated RSA-accumulator membership proof πt′ ,xj = πt,x       j
                                                                for every j ∈ [m].
By aggregating the relations, the aux proof size is reduced from O(m) to O(1)
group/field elements. The soundness for this aggregated verification is based
on the low-order assumption in the underlying group of unknown order, ensur-
ing that adversarial error terms cannot be canceled out by wrapping around a
small-order subgroup [14].

Bilinear accumulator In the bilinear setting, naively verifying m independent
PoEEq proofs requires the client to compute m separate pairing equations. Given
that the standard PoEEq relation (cf. Figure 14) uses an instance-dependent
Fiat–Shamir challenge αj that appears inside the G2 argument of the pairing
        τ +α
(i.e., g2 j ), these pairings cannot be directly batched. To overcome this, we
modify the PoEEq protocol to use a shared challenge for the entire batch. First,
                                                                                  ∗
the PSN and the client derive a single global challenge α := H({aj , fj }m
                                                                         j=1 ) ∈ Fp .
For each instance j ∈ [m], the PSN computes the quotient polynomial hj (X)
                                                                               h (τ )
such that fj (X) = (X +α)hj (X)+βj , and sends the proof elements Qj := g1 j
to the client. Because α is shared, the G2 pairing argument g2τ +α is now identical
across all m verification equations. This thus enables the client to verify the
entire batch using a random linear combination. In particular, the client derives
random Fiat–Shamir weights γj := H ′ (α, {Qi }m               ∗
                                                  i=1 , j) ∈ Fp and computes the
aggregated elements in G1 :
                        m                             m
                               γ                                 −βj γj
                        Y                             Y
              Qagg :=         Qj j   and    Aagg :=       (aj · g1   ) .
                        j=1                           j=1

The client then accepts the batch if and only if the following single pairing
                                  ?
equation holds: e(Qagg , g2τ +α ) = e(Aagg , g2 ).


7     Implementation and Performance Evaluation
7.1   Theoretical Performance
Observe that all client algorithms in the RSA (non-)membership delegation pro-
tocols, i.e., BlindProof(·), VerBlind(Non)MemProofUpd(·), and UnBlind(Non)MemProof(·)
run in O(1) time (cf. Table 3), which is independent of the updated set size
as desired in real-world applications. The linear O(k) computational cost of
Blind(Non)MemProof(·) in the bilinear membership proof delegation protocol
could be offloaded to a preprocessing phase. Unsurprisingly, cf. Lemma 1, the
asymptotic cost of the PSN server is O(k) in all our private delegation protocols.
26         Soóki-Tóth et al.

                                  ′
Private Delegation Protocol     |πt,x |      |aux|    BlindProof      BlindProofUpd       VerBlindProofUpd UnBlindProof
Merkle tree mem. [18]       O(log22 (kd))|G|       ∅         N/A      ≈ k(d|Zp |+d|G|+H)       O(log2 (kd))G    N/A
RSA mem.(Figure 4)               |GU |       4|GU |+2|Zλ |    GU     2kZλ + 6GU + 2HPrimes    8GU + 2HPrimes    GU
RSA non-mem.(Figure 5)           |Zλ |             ∅          Zλ          kZλ + GU                 2GU          GU
Bilinear mem. (Figure 6)      (k + 1)|G|      4|G|+|Zp | (k + 1)G (4k + 2)G + (2k + 1)Zp + H        3P         G + Zp
Bilinear non-mem. (Figure 7) 2k|G|+k|Zp |       k|G2 |     2kG + kZp   2kG + kZp + kG2       2kP + 3kG + kZp 2kG + 3kZp

Table 3: Theoretical performance of our private (non-)membership proof update
delegation algorithms for the RSA and bilinear accumulators. G, GU , P, H, Zλ
denote elliptic curve, unknown order group operations (i.e., RSA, class groups),
pairing, hashing and finite field operations, respectively. Recall, k denotes the
#elements added to St in the offline phase and d, the depth of the Merkle tree,
i.e., d = O( log2 (|St |)). For this comparison, we instantiated [18] with the Nova
folding scheme and Spartan decider SNARK [51]. Note that [18] provides no
public implementation, precluding direct empirical comparison.



7.2     Our Implementation

In the publicly available implementation 7 of our protocols, all code is imple-
mented in Rust, using the Arkworks library [3] and the Zengo class group li-
brary [28]. The criterion-rs crate was used for all benchmarks. We chose the
security parameter as λ = 128. Following NIST guidelines, this amounts to us-
ing moduli N of bit-length of 3072 [59]. Following the work of Dobson et al.
[32], we chose the discriminant ∆ for class groups of imaginary quadratic fields
to be 6784 bits long, providing λ bit security for class groups [33]. Accordingly,
we chose the BLS12-381 curve that is currently known to provide roughly 128-
bit security [17]. Interestingly, the Rust num bigint library always chooses the
most efficient integer multiplication algorithm (i.e., textbook, Karatsuba [47],
or Toom-Cook multiplication algorithms [50]) depending on the input integer
sizes. Similarly, division is implemented using Knuth’s algorithm; when dividing
by linear factors, we employ synthetic division [35]. Our hash-to-prime function
HPrime (·) is implemented with the image space of the first 22λ prime numbers
to provide a collision resistance of λ-bits (and λ-bit soundness in the applied
NIZKs compiled with the Fiat-Shamir heuristic [36]). Applying the prime num-
ber theorem, we set the image space of HPrime (·) to {0, 1}2λ+log(2λ) , i.e., in our
case {0, 1}262 . We instantiate HPrime (·) using a deterministic hash-and-increment
construction, starting from HSHA256 (·) we test the primality of odd candidates
with the Miller-Rabin probabilistic primality testing algorithm [60] using 64 it-
erations. All experiments are run on a consumer laptop with 16 GB RAM, and
an Apple M2 processor with 8 cores. Each experiment was run 50 times.


7.3     Performance Evaluation

Client Runtime Analysis In Table 4, we provide our benchmarks for the
constant-time client algorithms. Observe in Table 4 that all client algorithms
7
     See: https://github.com/GlaszBoti/private-accumulator-proof-delegation.
                    Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs            27


                                    RSA            Class Group          Bilinear
Algorithm                     Avg(ms) Var(ms) Avg(ms) Var(ms) Avg(ms) Var(ms)
BlindMemProof(·)               18.82      4.60     56.68    15.37     0.94     0.00
UnBlindMemProof(·)             10.71      0.00    46.58     0.00      0.21     0.00
BlindNonMemProof(·)            13.15      0.60     8.03     0.69      0.75     0.00
UnBlindNonMemProof(·)           6.25      0.00     40.82    0.01      0.32     0.00
VerBlindMemProofUpd(·)         90.95      0.01    513.39    2.65      8.23     0.00
VerBlindNonMemProofUpd(·)      20.29      0.01    161.65    0.30      8.31     0.00
Table 4: Performance evaluation of the constant-time client algorithms in the
private (non-)membership proof update protocols for the RSA (instantiated with
Z∗N and class groups of imaginary quadratic fields) and bilinear accumulators.



run in the millisecond range, showcasing the practicality of our protocols for
clients, one of our initial design goals. Moreover, the results show that the bilinear
accumulator-based constructions are significantly faster, with sub-millisecond
running time for most operations. The RSA accumulator instantiated with class
groups avoids trusted setups, but incurs substantial overhead for all our algo-
rithms due to larger group sizes and the slower Abelian group law for composing
binary quadratic forms. The low variance across all schemes and algorithms pro-
vides evidence of stable and deterministic behavior of our implementations.

Server Runtime Analysis In Figure 9a, we measure the total runtime of
private (non-)membership proof updates as the set St grows. Our private dele-
gation algorithms for the bilinear accumulator significantly outperform other pri-
vate membership update algorithms, achieving at least 2× faster runtime when
adding up to 1024 elements. Similarly, for non-membership proof updates, the
bilinear accumulator consistently outperforms every RSA accumulator instanti-
ation. Interestingly, the trapdoor setting of RSA (i.e., when the factorization is
known to the server) achieves constant-time, i.e., O(1) updates. Figure 15 in-
vestigates which cryptographic operations (e.g., hashing, exponentiation (multi-
scalar multiplication), NIZK proof generation, etc.) constitute a bottleneck for
the server during private proof update delegation.

Baseline Comparison: Privacy Overhead We consider the accumulator
scheme’s (non-)membership proof computational cost as baseline. In Figure 9b,
we evaluate the computational overhead incurred by our private (non-)membership
proof update algorithms as the size of the updates grows. Formally, we define
the privacy overhead as the ratio
                             t(Blind(Non)MemProofUpd(·), k)
                    κ(k) =                                  ,                      (7.1)
                               t((Non)MemProofCreate(·), k)
where t(·, k) denotes the running time of an algorithm when k elements were
added to the accumulator in the offline phase. Intuitively, a client can request
28                                Soóki-Tóth et al.

                          Private membership proof update                                         Private non-membership proof update                                           Private membership proof update                                            Private non-membership proof update

                                                                                                                                                                     10                                                                         10
                          RSA trapdoored                                                           RSA trapdoored                                                                                                                                           RSA trapdoored
            105           RSA trapdoorless                                                         RSA trapdoorless                                                                                                                                         RSA trapdoorless
                                                                                       104
                          Class group                                                              Class group                                                                                                                                   5          Class group
                                                                                                                                                                      5




                                                                                                                                              Privacy overhead (κ)                                                       Privacy overhead (κ)
                          Bilinear                                                                 Bilinear                                                                                                                                                 Bilinear
            104
                                                                                       103
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 2


Time (ms)                                                                  Time (ms)
            103                                                                        102                                                                            2
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 1
            102                                                                        101                                                                            1                                                                         0.5
                                                                                                                                                                                                     RSA trapdoored
                                                                                                                                                                                                     RSA trapdoorless
            101                                                                        100
                                                                                                                                                                     0.5                             Class group
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                0.2
                                                                                                                                                                                                     Bilinear
            100
                  2   3
                          2   4
                                  25     6
                                         2     7
                                               2     8
                                                     2    2   9
                                                                  2   10
                                                                                             23     24   25     26    27    28   29     210                                23   24   25     26    27    28   29    210                                23     24   25     26    27    28   29     210
                                  Inserted elements (k)                                                  Inserted elements (k)                                                       Inserted elements (k)                                                        Inserted elements (k)



                                                   (a) Runtimes                                                                                                                        (b) Delegation Overhead

Fig. 9: PSN server running times in the (non-)membership proof update al-
gorithms (Blind(Non)MemProofUpd(·)). Private update overhead is defined
as the ratio of the running times of the Blind(Non)MemProofUpd(·) and
(Non)MemCreate(·) algorithms.


a fresh (non-)membership proof from the server without privacy or use private
proof updates that may incur a performance overhead for the PSN.
    Observe that the overhead of the RSA accumulator’s private proof delega-
tion algorithms κ(·) quickly converges. In case of membership proof updates,
this is expected as exponentiation is the dominant cost, and BlindMemProofUpd
performs six exponentiations with kλ-bit exponent against the single exponenti-
                                    6k
ation of (n + k)λ-bit exponent, so n+k  → 6 as k → ∞ where n is the number of
elements in the accumulator before the updates. Similarly, non-membership algo-
rithms converge to one as both NonMemProofCreate and BlindNonMemProofUpd
do one extended GCD and exponentiation. The bilinear accumulator incurs a
high privacy overhead attributed to the already efficient proof creation and inter-
active design of non-membership proof updates. Overall, the data demonstrate
that the RSA-based instantiation provides the lowest overhead for privately del-
egated (non-)membership proof updates.

7.4                           Case Study: PSN for Stateless Blockchains
We study the communication and operational costs of running a PSN server
for the stateless blockchain use case [14,24,65] in Figure 10. At the time of
writing, the hourly running cost of a t3.medium AWS instance with 8 threads
is cost = 0.052 USD/hour [2]. In Bitcoin, the coin age distribution (the time
elapsed between the creation and spending of a UTXO) follows a power-law
distribution, i.e., p(x) = Cx−α , where C = e−1.4159 = 0.243, α = 0.9550 as
measured in [63]. Thus, the average coin age in Bitcoin is avg(p(x)) ≈ 162
days. For simplicity, for a given stateless blockchain throughput y (in trans-
actions per second (tps)), we treat that between each coin spending there are
y · avg(p(x)) new elements inserted into the accumulator representing the set
of unspent coins in the cryptocurrency system. In case of the bilinear accumu-
lator, we assume the system uses the longest available crs today, which has a
length of 228 [69]. Thus, the PSN can support the outsourcing of a member-
ship proof update iff y · avg(p(x)) ≤ 228 . In this case, the operational cost is
                                                           Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs                                                                                    29


                                     00        00                                                                                                     00        00
                                                                           101
                                                       2       1                                                                                                        2
                               2    e+        e+     e-0     e-0    3.4                                                                         2    e+        e+     e-0    1.1      .1
                                   0.0      0.0     1.0     2.1                                                                                     0.0      0.0     7.0            18     102




Blockchain Throughput (tps)                                                                                      Blockchain Throughput (tps)
                                     00        00      2       1                                                                                      00         2      1
                               4                                           100                                                                  4




                                                                                 Communication complexity (PB)
                                                     e-0     e-0                                                                                               e-0    e-0             .3
                                    e+
                                   0.0
                                              e+
                                            0.0     3.0     4.3
                                                                    6.8                                                                              e+
                                                                                                                                                    0.0       1.0    2.1
                                                                                                                                                                             3.3    53     101




                                                                                                                                                                                                 Server cost (USD)
                                     00        00      2       1                                                                                      00         2      1
                               8    e+        e+     e-0
                                                    5.0
                                                             e-0
                                                            8.5    13.6    10 1                                                                 8    e+        e-0
                                                                                                                                                              4.0
                                                                                                                                                                      e-0
                                                                                                                                                                     6.1
                                                                                                                                                                             9.8     6.9
                                                                                                                                                                                    15     100
                                   0.0      0.0                                                                                                     0.0

                                     00         2      1                                                                                              2          1
                              16    e+        e-0
                                             1.0
                                                     e-0
                                                    1.1
                                                             1.7   27.3
                                                                           10 2                                                                16    e-0
                                                                                                                                                    1.0
                                                                                                                                                               e-0
                                                                                                                                                              1.1
                                                                                                                                                                      1.8     .9
                                                                                                                                                                             28
                                                                                                                                                                                     1.9
                                                                                                                                                                                    46     10 1
                                   0.0

                              32                                                                                                               32                                          10 2
                                                                           10 3


                              64                                                                                                               64                                          10 3
                                                                           10 4

                                     0         1      21     341      1                                                                               0         1      21     341      1
                                                                   546                                                                                                              546
                                         PSN server running time (days)                                                                                   PSN server running time (days)
                                   (a) Communication costs (in PB)                                                                                   (b) Operational costs (in USD)

  Fig. 10: Stateless Blockchain case study. Communication and operational costs
  of a PSN for a blockchain throughput and uptime with the bilinear accumulator.


  cost · z · (y · avg(p(x))) · t(BlindMemProofUpd(·), y · avg(p(x)) assuming that the
  PSN serves its clients for z days and the running times t(·, ·) were approximated
  from the measurements of Figure 9 using linear regression (R2 = 0.95). Figure 10
  suggests that operating a PSN with real-world workloads has low economic costs
  in the stateles blockchain application.


  8                                Open Problems and Future Directions

  In this work, we presented efficient algorithms that allow an intermittently con-
  nected, resource-constrained client to privately delegate its (non-)membership
  proof updates to an untrusted server. We built and evaluated efficient schemes
  for the RSA and bilinear accumulators. We leave several open problems and
  foresee promising research directions for future work.

  Limitations We acknowledge the shortcomings of our private (non-)membership
  proof delegation protocols, e.g., RSA non-membership proof updates achieve
  only weak privacy (cf. Section 5.3), and the bilinear non-membership proofs
  only admit interactive private delegation protocols with rounds proportional to
  the number of updates (cf. Section 5.4). These design constraints, however, in-
  herently stem from the algebraic structure of the underlying RSA and bilinear
  accumulator schemes we build upon. We aim for our work to be an initiative
  for building efficient private delegation protocols for accumulator schemes and
  possibly other authenticated data structures. We hope that the (in)ability to
  build efficient private delegation algorithms better informs researchers and prac-
  titioners to keep private delegation in mind when deploying accumulator schemes
30     Soóki-Tóth et al.

in large-scale, real-world applications. Moreover, we highlight the following as
potential directions for future research.

Delegation-friendly accumulator schemes Our work highlights that we still
   lack the “perfect” cryptographic accumulator scheme that could be readily
   applied and deployed in real-world applications serving millions of resource-
   constrained devices. Designing an efficient, universal, dynamic, batchable,
   delegation-friendly accumulator scheme is still a major open problem.
Post-quantum privately delegatable accumulators None of our delegation
   schemes provides post-quantum security. Thus, the imminent post-quantum
   transition motivates the need to design private delegation schemes for post-
   quantum secure accumulators [49,55]. We leave the construction of post-
   quantum variants of our schemes as an exciting research question.
Other authenticated data structures Our primary focus in this work was
   to design private proof delegation for universal, dynamic accumulators. One
   could explore other authenticated data structures such as vector commit-
   ments (VC), polynomial commitment schemes, or authenticated dictionar-
   ies. For instance, we believe similar techniques could work for the Hyper-
   proofs VC scheme [65]. The authors in [46] construct a key-value commitment
   (KVC) scheme in which a dictionary (a set of key-value pairs D = {(ki , vi )})
   is represented directly as a sum of partial fractions. It seems in reach to
   design a private delegation scheme for the (non-)membership proofs in their
   KVC scheme with O(1) server complexity.
Multi-server proof delegation In real-world deployments, it may be the case
   that multiple servers store different disjoint subsets of the update. Thus, it is
   promising to extend our protocols to a multi-server setting, e.g., for better
   liveness. A basic design could be to have PSNs share a zero secret in the
   preprocessing phase, and collaboratively generate the proof update (blinded
   by a zero share). We leave the details of this protocol to future work.

Acknowledgements. We are grateful to Ivan Homoliak, Alin Tomescu, and Steve
Thakur for insightful conversations. István András Seres was supported by the
Ministry of Culture and Innovation and the National Research, Development,
and Innovation Office within the Quantum Information National Laboratory of
Hungary (Grant No. 2022-2.1.1-NL-2022-00004).


References

 1. Hamza Abusalah, Gaspard Anthoine, Gennaro Avitabile, and Emanuele Giunta.
    Lower bounding update frequency in short accumulators and vector commitments.
    Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2025.
 2. Amazon Web Services. Aws pricing calculator: Amazon ec2 estimate. https:
    //calculator.aws/#/createCalculator/ec2-enhancement, 2026. Accessed
    Apr. 2026.
 3. arkworks contributors. arkworks zksnark ecosystem. https://arkworks.rs, 2022.
                    Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs         31

 4. Foteini Baldimtsi, Jan Camenisch, Maria Dubovitskaya, Anna Lysyanskaya, Leonid
    Reyzin, Kai Samelin, and Sophia Yakoubov. Accumulators with applications to
    anonymity-preserving revocation. In 2017 IEEE European Symposium on Security
    and Privacy (EuroS&P), pages 301–315, San Jose, CA, USA, 2017. IEEE.
 5. Foteini Baldimtsi, Ioanna Karantaidou, and Srinivasan Raghuraman. Oblivious ac-
    cumulators. In Qiang Tang and Vanessa Teague, editors, Public-Key Cryptography
    – PKC 2024, pages 99–131, Cham, 2024. Springer Nature Switzerland.
 6. Anaı̈s Barthoulot, Olivier Blazy, and Sébastien Canard. Cryptographic accumu-
    lators: New definitions, enhanced security, and delegatable proofs. In Cryptology
    in Africa Conference, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 94–119, Cham,
    Switzerland, 2024. Springer.
 7. Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Christina Garman, Matthew Green, Ian Miers,
    Eran Tromer, and Madars Virza. Zerocash: Decentralized anonymous payments
    from bitcoin. In 2014 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (S&P 2014),
    pages 459–474, San Jose, CA, USA, 2014. IEEE.
 8. Josh Benaloh and Michael de Mare. One-way accumulators: A decentralized al-
    ternative to digital signatures. In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 1993,
    volume 765 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 274–285, Berlin, Heidel-
    berg, 1994. Springer.
 9. Josh Benaloh and Michael De Mare. One-way accumulators: A decentralized al-
    ternative to digital signatures. In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 1993,
    volume 765 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 274–285, Berlin, Heidel-
    berg, 1994. Springer.
10. Elwyn R. Berlekamp. Factoring polynomials over finite fields. Bell System Tech-
    nical Journal, 46(8):1853–1859, 1967.
11. Manuel Blum, Paul Feldman, and Silvio Micali. Non-interactive zero-knowledge
    and its applications. In Providing Sound Foundations for Cryptography: On the
    Work of Shafi Goldwasser and Silvio Micali, pages 329–349. ACM, New York, NY,
    USA, 2019.
12. Dan Boneh, Joseph Bonneau, Benedikt Bünz, and Ben Fisch. Verifiable delay
    functions. In Annual international cryptology conference, pages 757–788. Springer,
    2018.
13. Dan Boneh, Xavier Boyen, and Hovav Shacham. Short group signatures. In Ad-
    vances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2004, volume 3152 of Lecture Notes in Computer
    Science, pages 41–55, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2004. Springer.
14. Dan Boneh, Benedikt Bünz, and Ben Fisch. Batching techniques for accumula-
    tors with applications to iops and stateless blockchains. In Advances in Cryptol-
    ogy – CRYPTO 2019, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 561–586, Cham,
    Switzerland, 2019. Springer.
15. Dan Boneh and Matt Franklin. Identity-based encryption from the weil pairing.
    In Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2001, volume 2139 of Lecture Notes in
    Computer Science, pages 213–229, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2001. Springer.
16. Joseph Bonneau, Jessica Chen, Miranda Christ, and Ioanna Karantaidou. Merkle
    mountain ranges are optimal: On witness update frequency for cryptographic ac-
    cumulators. In Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2025, volume 14025 of Lecture
    Notes in Computer Science, pages 170–202, Cham, Switzerland, 2025. Springer.
17. Sean Bowe. Bls12-381: New zk-snark elliptic curve construction. Zcash Company
    blog, URL: https://z. cash/blog/new-snark-curve, 22, 2017.
18. Sean Bowe and Ian Miers. A note on notes: Towards scalable anonymous payments
    via evolving nullifiers and oblivious synchronization. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
    2025.
32      Soóki-Tóth et al.

19. Jan Camenisch, Markulf Kohlweiss, and Claudio Soriente. An accumulator based
    on bilinear maps and efficient revocation for anonymous credentials. In Interna-
    tional Workshop on Public Key Cryptography (PKC 2009), volume 5443 of Lecture
    Notes in Computer Science, pages 481–500, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2009. Springer.
20. Jan Camenisch and Anna Lysyanskaya. An efficient system for non-transferable
    anonymous credentials with optional anonymity revocation. In Advances in Cryp-
    tology – EUROCRYPT 2001, volume 2045 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
    pages 93–118, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2001. Springer.
21. Jan Camenisch and Anna Lysyanskaya. Dynamic accumulators and application
    to efficient revocation of anonymous credentials. In Advances in Cryptology –
    CRYPTO 2002, volume 2442 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 61–76,
    Berlin, Heidelberg, 2002. Springer.
22. Jan Camenisch and Anna Lysyanskaya. A signature scheme with efficient protocols.
    In Security in Communication Networks (SCN 2002), volume 2576 of Lecture Notes
    in Computer Science, pages 268–289, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2003. Springer.
23. David Chaum and Torben Pryds Pedersen. Wallet databases with observers. In Ad-
    vances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 1992, volume 740 of Lecture Notes in Computer
    Science, pages 89–105, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1992. Springer.
24. Alexander Chepurnoy, Charalampos Papamanthou, Shravan Srinivasan, and Yu-
    peng Zhang. Edrax: A cryptocurrency with stateless transaction validation. Cryp-
    tology ePrint Archive, 2018.
25. Céline Chevalier, Fabien Laguillaumie, and Damien Vergnaud. Privately outsourc-
    ing exponentiation to a single server: cryptanalysis and optimal constructions.
    Algorithmica, 83(1):72–115, 2021.
26. Benny Chor, Eyal Kushilevitz, Oded Goldreich, and Madhu Sudan. Private infor-
    mation retrieval. Journal of the ACM (JACM), 45(6):965–981, 1998.
27. Miranda Christ and Joseph Bonneau. Limits on revocable proof systems, with
    implications for stateless blockchains. In International Conference on Financial
    Cryptography and Data Security (FC 2023), volume 13924 of Lecture Notes in
    Computer Science, pages 54–71, Cham, Switzerland, 2023. Springer.
28. class contributors. Rust library for building iqc. https://github.com/ZenGo-X/c
    lass, 2019.
29. Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Dmitry Kogan. Private information retrieval with sub-
    linear online time. In Annual International Conference on the Theory and Applica-
    tions of Cryptographic Techniques (EUROCRYPT 2020), volume 12105 of Lecture
    Notes in Computer Science, pages 44–75, Cham, Switzerland, 2020. Springer.
30. Ivan Damgård and Nikos Triandopoulos. Supporting non-membership proofs with
    bilinear-map accumulators. Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2008.
31. Sergi Delgado-Segura, Cristina Pérez-Solà, Guillermo Navarro-Arribas, and Jordi
    Herrera-Joancomartı́. Analysis of the bitcoin utxo set. In Financial Cryptography
    and Data Security, volume 10957 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages
    78–91, Cham, Switzerland, 2018. Springer.
32. Samuel Dobson, Steven Galbraith, and Benjamin Smith. Trustless unknown-order
    groups. arXiv, 2022.
33. Samuel Dobson, Steven D. Galbraith, and Benjamin Smith. Trustless unknown-
    order groups. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2020/196, 2020.
34. European Parliament and the Council of the European Union. Regulation (eu)
    2024/1183 of the european parliament and of the council of 11 april 2024 amending
    regulation (eu) no 910/2014 as regards establishing the european digital identity
    framework. Official Journal of the European Union, L 2024/1183, 30 April 2024,
                    Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs         33

    April 2024. ELI: http://data.europa.eu/eli/reg/2024/1183/oj. Accessed: 2026-07-
    22.
35. Lianghuo Fan. A generalization of synthetic division and a general theorem of
    division of polynomials. Mathematical Medley, 30(1):30–37, June 2003.
36. Amos Fiat and Adi Shamir. How to prove yourself: Practical solutions to iden-
    tification and signature problems. In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT
    1986, volume 263 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 186–194, Berlin,
    Heidelberg, 1987. Springer.
37. Sanjam Garg, Mohammad Hajiabadi, Mohammad Mahmoody, and Ahmadreza
    Rahimi. Registration-based encryption: Removing private-key generator from ibe.
    In Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC 2018), volume 11239 of Lecture Notes
    in Computer Science, pages 689–718, Cham, Switzerland, 2018. Springer.
38. Sanjam Garg, Mohammad Hajiabadi, Mohammad Mahmoody, Ahmadreza
    Rahimi, and Sruthi Sekar. Registration-based encryption from standard assump-
    tions. In IACR international workshop on public key cryptography, pages 63–93.
    Springer, 2019.
39. Craig Gentry. Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In Proceedings
    of the 41st Annual ACM Symposium on Theory of Computing, STOC ’09, pages
    169–178, New York, NY, USA, 2009. ACM.
40. Noemi Glaeser, Dimitris Kolonelos, Giulio Malavolta, and Ahmadreza Rahimi.
    Efficient registration-based encryption. In Proceedings of the 2023 ACM SIGSAC
    Conference on Computer and Communications Security, CCS ’23, pages 1065–
    1079, New York, NY, USA, 2023. ACM.
41. Golem Network. Golem network. https://golem.network/, 2026. Accessed:
    2026-04-16.
42. Tiantian Gong, Aniket Kate, Alexandros Psomas, and Athina Terzoglou. V3rified:
    Revelation vs non-revelation mechanisms for decentralized verifiable computation.
    arXiv, 2024.
43. Iftach Haitner, Jonathan J. Hoch, and Gil Segev. A linear lower bound on the com-
    munication complexity of single-server private information retrieval. In Theory of
    Cryptography Conference (TCC 2008), volume 4948 of Lecture Notes in Computer
    Science, pages 445–464, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2008. Springer.
44. Susan Hohenberger and Anna Lysyanskaya. How to securely outsource crypto-
    graphic computations. In Theory of Cryptography Conference (TCC 2005), vol-
    ume 3378 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 264–282, Berlin, Heidelberg,
    2005. Springer.
45. Samuel Jaques, Hart Montgomery, and Michael Lodder. Allosaur: Accumulator
    with low-latency oblivious sublinear anonymous credential updates with revoca-
    tions. In Proceedings of the 19th ACM Asia Conference on Computer and Com-
    munications Security, pages 1708–1723, New York, NY, USA, 2024. ACM.
46. Charanjit S. Jutla, Rohit Nema, and Arnab Roy. Partial fraction techniques for
    cryptography. Cryptology ePrint Archive, 2025.
47. Anatolii A. Karatsuba and Yuri Ofman. Multiplication of many-digital numbers
    by automatic computers. Doklady Akademii Nauk SSSR, 145(2):293–294, 1962.
48. Aniket Kate, Gregory M. Zaverucha, and Ian Goldberg. Constant-size commit-
    ments to polynomials and their applications. In Advances in Cryptology – ASI-
    ACRYPT 2010, Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 177–194, Berlin, Hei-
    delberg, 2010. Springer.
49. Victor Youdom Kemmoe, Anna Lysyanskaya, and Ngoc Khanh Nguyen. Lattice-
    based accumulator and application to anonymous credential revocation. In Shi
34      Soóki-Tóth et al.

    Bai and Edoardo Persichetti, editors, Public-Key Cryptography – PKC 2026, pages
    404–436, Cham, 2026. Springer Nature Switzerland.
50. Donald E. Knuth. The Art of Computer Programming, Volume 1: Fundamental
    Algorithms. Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA, USA, 3 edition, 1997.
51. Abhiram Kothapalli, Srinath Setty, and Ioanna Tzialla. Nova: Recursive zero-
    knowledge arguments from folding schemes. In Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO
    2022, pages 359–388, Cham, 2022. Springer Nature Switzerland.
52. Jiangtao Li, Ninghui Li, and Rui Xue. Universal accumulators with efficient non-
    membership proofs. In International Conference on Applied Cryptography and
    Network Security, pages 253–269. Springer, 2007.
53. Yiping Ma, Ke Zhong, Tal Rabin, and Sebastian Angel. Incremental Offline/Online
    pir. In 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 22), pages 1741–1758,
    Boston, MA, USA, 2022. USENIX Association.
54. Marcela S. Melara, Aaron Blankstein, Joseph Bonneau, Edward W. Felten, and
    Michael J. Freedman. CONIKS: Bringing key transparency to end users. In 24th
    USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security 15), pages 383–398, Washington,
    D.C., USA, 2015. USENIX Association.
55. Ralph C. Merkle. A digital signature based on a conventional encryption function.
    In Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 1987, Lecture Notes in Computer Sci-
    ence, pages 369–378, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1987. Springer.
56. Ian Miers, Christina Garman, Matthew Green, and Aviel D. Rubin. Zerocoin:
    Anonymous distributed e-cash from bitcoin. In 2013 IEEE Symposium on Security
    and Privacy (S&P 2013), pages 397–411, Berkeley, CA, USA, 2013. IEEE.
57. Lan Nguyen. Accumulators from bilinear pairings and applications. In Cryptog-
    raphers’ Track at the RSA Conference (CT-RSA 2005), volume 3376 of Lecture
    Notes in Computer Science, pages 275–292, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2005. Springer.
58. Charalampos Papamanthou. Cryptography for Efficiency: New Directions in Au-
    thenticated Data Structures. PhD thesis, Brown University, 2011.
59. W Timothy Polk, Donna F Dodson, William E Burr, Hildegard Ferraiolo, and
    David Cooper. Cryptographic algorithms and key sizes for personal identity veri-
    fication. NIST Special Publication, 800(78–4):1–19, 2015.
60. Michael O Rabin. Probabilistic algorithm for testing primality. Journal of number
    theory, 12(1):128–138, 1980.
61. Jothi Rangasamy and Lakshmi Kuppusamy. Revisiting single-server algorithms for
    outsourcing modular exponentiation. In International Conference on Cryptology in
    India (INDOCRYPT 2018), volume 11263 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
    pages 3–20, Cham, Switzerland, 2018. Springer.
62. Leonid Reyzin and Sophia Yakoubov. Efficient asynchronous accumulators for
    distributed pki. In Security and Cryptography for Networks, Lecture Notes in
    Computer Science, pages 292–309, Cham, Switzerland, 2016. Springer.
63. Mario Schröck. Time is money: How coin age shapes bitcoin’s spending patterns.
    https://insights.glassnode.com/time-is-money-how-coin-age-shapes-bit
    coins-spending-patterns/, December 2024. Glassnode Insights blog.
64. Victor Shoup. Lower bounds for discrete logarithms and related problems. In
    Advances in Cryptology – EUROCRYPT 1997, volume 1233 of Lecture Notes in
    Computer Science, pages 256–266, Berlin, Heidelberg, 1997. Springer.
65. Shravan Srinivasan, Alexander Chepurnoy, Charalampos Papamanthou, Alin
    Tomescu, and Yupeng Zhang. Hyperproofs: Aggregating and maintaining proofs
    in vector commitments. In 31st USENIX Security Symposium (USENIX Security
    22), pages 3001–3018, 2022.
                     Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs            35

66. Steve Thakur. Batching non-membership proofs with bilinear accumulators. Cryp-
    tology ePrint Archive, 2019.
67. Luke Valenta, Shaanan Cohney, Alex Liao, Joshua Fried, Satya Bodduluri, and
    Nadia Heninger. Factoring as a service. In Financial Cryptography and Data
    Security, volume 9603 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 321–338, Berlin,
    Heidelberg, 2016. Springer.
68. Giuseppe Vitto and Alex Biryukov. Dynamic universal accumulator with batch
    update over bilinear groups. In Cryptographers’ Track at the RSA Conference (CT-
    RSA 2022), Lecture Notes in Computer Science, pages 395–426, Cham, Switzer-
    land, 2022. Springer.
69. Faxing Wang, Shaanan Cohney, and Joseph Bonneau. Sok: Trusted setups for
    powers-of-tau strings. In International Conference on Financial Cryptography and
    Data Security (FC 2025), volume 14513 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
    pages 197–218, Cham, Switzerland, 2025. Springer.
70. Yujue Wang, Qianhong Wu, Duncan S. Wong, Bo Qin, Sherman S. M. Chow, Zhen
    Liu, and Xiao Tan. Securely outsourcing exponentiations with single untrusted
    program for cloud storage. In European Symposium on Research in Computer
    Security (ESORICS 2014), volume 8712 of Lecture Notes in Computer Science,
    pages 326–343, Cham, Switzerland, 2014. Springer.


A     Additional Background
A.1    The RSA and bilinear accumulators
We recall the algorithms of the universal, dynamic RSA [9,52] and bilinear ac-
cumulators [57,30] in Figures 11 and 12.

A.2    The KZG Polynomial Commitment scheme
KZG Polynomial Commitments. The Kate–Zaverucha–Goldberg (KZG) com-
mitment scheme [48] allows committing to a polynomial over a finite field while
later enabling succinct proofs of its evaluations.
           λ                        $
          , n) →2 crs. Letn τ ←
KZG.Setup(1                           − Fp. Compute the structured reference string
               τ    τ            τ
   crs = g1 , g1 , g1 , . . . , g1 , g2 , g2τ . Output crs. These public parameters al-
   low users to commit to polynomials of degree at most n without knowing
   the trapdoor τ itself.                     Pd        i
KZG.Com(crs, f ) → C. Let f (X) =               i=0 ai X be a polynomial with d ≤ n.
                               Pd
                      f (τ )        a τi
   Compute C = g1         = g1 i=0 i . Output the commitment C. To commit to
   f (X), the committer evaluates the polynomial at the hidden value τ in the
   exponent. Using the crs powers of τ , this exponentiation can be computed
   efficiently without knowing τ .
KZG.Open(crs, f, z) → π. Compute the evaluation y = f (z). Compute the quo-
                                                                         q(τ )
   tient polynomial q(X) = f (X)−yX−z . Compute the proof π = g1               . Output
   (y, π).
KZG.Vrfy(crs, C, z, y, π) → {0, 1} Accept if and only if e(C/g1y , g2 ) = e(π, g2τ /g2z ).
   Otherwise reject. The verifier checks a pairing equation encoding the identity
   f (τ ) − y = (τ − z)q(τ ) in the exponent.
36         Soóki-Tóth et al.


     Setup(λ):                                   MemProofCreate(Acct , St , x):
                                                                  Q
              $
                                                   1a. πt,x ← g   s∈St , s̸=x s
       1. G ←
            − GGen(λ)
             $                                                        x−1 mod |G|
       2. g ←
            −G                                     1b. πt,x ← Acct
       3. return G, g                              2. return πt,x

     Add(Acct , St , x):                         NonMemProofCreate(Acct , St , x):
                                                  1. s∗ ← s∈St s mod |G|
                                                           Q
       1. if x ∈ St : return Acct
       2. else:                                   2. a, b mod |G| ← Bezout(s∗ , x)
       3.     St+1 ← St ∪ {x}                     3. B ← g b
       4.     u←x                                 4. return πt,x ← {a, B}
       5.     Acct+1 ← Accxt
       6.     return Acctx , u                   MemVer(Acct , πt,x , x):
                                                   1. return 1 if (πt,x )x = Acct
     Del(Acct , St , x):
       1. if x ∈
               / S : return Acct                 NonMemVer(Acct , πt,x , x):
       2. else:                                    1. {a, B} ← πt,x
       3.     St+1 ← St \ {x}                      2. return 1 if Accat B x = g
                          Q
                                 s
       4a.     Acct+1 ← g s∈St+1
                                 x−1 mod |G|
       4b.     Acct+1 ← Acct
       5.     u ← {x, Acct , Acct+1 }
       6.     return Acct+1 , u



Fig. 11: The algorithms of the universal, dynamic RSA accumulator [9,52]. Cer-
tain algorithms can be significantly sped up whenever the group order is known
to a trusted accumulator manager (written in blue).



Security properties. The KZG commitment scheme satisfies correctness, (poly-
nomial) binding, and evaluation binding. Intuitively, polynomial binding ensures
that a polynomial commitment cannot be opened to two different polynomials.
Evaluation binding ensures that at any point z ∈ Fp , the prover can only open
the committed polynomial to a single evaluation point y. Finally, correctness
ensures that an honest opening proof is always accepted by the verifier. For the
formal security definitions, the reader is referred to [48].



A.3      NIZK for NP-statement in Groups of Unknown Order


Discrete logarithm equality (sometimes Chaum-Pedersen proof) (DLEq) [23,14].

                  RDLEq = {(((g, u, h, v) ∈ G4 ); w ∈ Z) : u = g w ∧ v = hw }.      (A.1)
                            Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs                        37


    Setup(λ, n):                                          MemProofCreate(Acct , St , st (X), sj ):
                                 $
      1. (G1 , G2 , GT , p) ←
                            − GGen(λ)
              $              $                                1. qt,sj (X) ← st (X)/(X − sj )
      2. g1 ←− G1 , g 2 ←
                        − G2 , s0 (X) ← 1
                                                              2. πt,sj ← KZG.Com(qt,sj (X))
      3. pp := (G1 , G2 , GT , g1 , g2 , s0 (X))
                       i                          $           3. return πt,sj
      4. crs := ({g1τ }n           τ
                       i=0 , g2 , g2 ) for τ ←
                                             − Fp
      5. return (pp, crs)                         NonMemProofCreate(Acct , St , st (X), sj ):

    Add(Acct , St , st (X), sj ):
                                           1. qt,sj (X) ← st (X)/(X − sj )
      1. if sj ∈ St : return Acct          2. yt,sj ← st (X) mod (X − sj )
      2. else:                             3. Bt,sj ← KZG.Com(qt,sj (X))
      3.     St+1 ← St ∪ {sj }             4. return πt,sj ← {yt,sj , Bt,sj }
      4.     st+1 (X) ← st (X) · (X − sj )
      5.     Acct+1 ← KZG.Com(st+1 (X)) MemVer(Acct , πt,sj , sj ):
      6.     return Acct+1 , st+1 (X)                                     s
                                           1. return 1 if e(πt,sj , g2τ /g2j ) = e(Acct , g2 )
    Del(Acct , St , sj ):                                 NonMemVer(Acct , πt,sj , sj ):
      1. if sj ∈
               / St : return Acct                             1. {yt,sj , Bt,sj } ← πt,x
      2. else:                                                                     τ −s           y
                                                              2. lhs ← e(Bt,sj , g2 j )e(g1 , g2 ) t,sj
      3.     St+1 ← St \ {sj }
                                                              3. return 1 if lhs = e(Acct , g2 )
      4.     st+1 (X) ← st (X)/(X − sj )
      5.     Acct+1 ← KZG.Com(st+1 (X))
      6.     return Acct+1 , st+1 (X)



                  Fig. 12: The algorithms of the bilinear accumulator [57].


B      Deferred Security Proofs

B.1      RSA Membership Proof Delegation

Theorem 5 (RSA accumulator is privately delegatable for member-
ship proofs). Our construction in Figure 4 yields a secure, privately delegatable
membership proof update scheme for the RSA accumulator under the strong RSA
assumption and knowledge soundness of Figure 13.

Proof. Correctness. For any accumulated set St and any element x ∈ St , an
honestly run proof update should yield a valid membership proof for the updated
accumulator Acct′ that is accepted with overwhelming
                                                Q
                                                         probability.
   Let the accumulator at time t Qbe Acct = g s∈St s . For x ∈ St the correspond-
ing membership proof is πt,x = g s∈St /{x} s . Then, an honestly generated proof
                                ′
update on the blinded witness πt,x  = πt,x · g r yields
                                                         Qk
                           (πt′ ′ ,x , aux) = ((πt,x
                                                 ′
                                                     )    i=1 xi        ′
                                                                   , ((πt,x )r , g r , z)) ,          (B.1)
38         Soóki-Tóth et al.


     NIZK.Prove(pp, RDLEq , (ĝ, u, h, v), w):      NIZK.Verify(pp, RDLEq , (ĝ, u, h, v), π):
       1. g ∗ ← g w                                  1. (Q1 , Q2 , Q3 , g ∗ , r) ← π
       2. e ← HPrimes (ĝ, h, u, v, g ∗ )            2. e ← HPrimes (ĝ, h, u, v, g ∗ )
       3. (q, r) ← Z s.t. w = q · e + r for r ∈ [e] 3. return 1 if r ∈ [e] ∧ u = ĝ r · Qe1 ∧
                      2

       4. Q1 ← ĝ q , Q2 ← hq , Q3 ← g q           ∧v = hr · Qe2 ∧ Qe3 · g r = g ∗
       5. return π := (Q1 , Q2 , Q3 , g ∗ , r)



Fig. 13: A non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK) proof system for the relation
RDLEq using the Fiat-Shamir heuristic instantiated in a group of unknown or-
der [14,66]. Note that the proof system has constant-size proofs (four G elements
and a λ-bit integer) and a constant-time (six λ-bit exponentiations in G) verifier.


where the current set of accumulated values is St′ = (St ∪ {xi }ki=1 ). The unblind
algorithm outputs
                                      πt′ ′ ,x ∆
                             πt′ ,x = ∆ r = πt,x   .                          (B.2)
                                     (g )
Finally, we verify the unblinded, updated membership proof
                               Q            x∆
                                                 = g ( s∈St s)·∆ = Acct′ ,
                                                      Q
                  (πt′ ,x )x = g s∈St /{x} s                                              (B.3)

which always leads to acceptance, thus completing the proof of correctness.
     Blinded Membership Proof Indistinguishability. Consider the blinded
membership proof indistinguishability game in Figure 3. The adversary A sends
                                                              $
x0 , x1 , after which the challenger C samples a random bit b ←
                                                              − {0, 1} and responds
                                         ′             r
with the blinded membership proof π1,xb = π1,xb · g , where r is freshly sampled
for each query. If r is sampled uniformly at random, then π1,xb · g r is uniform
in G, and thus, independent of the challenger’s bit b. In other words, we have
information-theoretic indistinguishability. Therefore,

                                      ′              1
                           Advind
                              A = Pr[b = b] −          ≤ negl(λ) .
                                                     2

    Delegation Soundness. Towards contradiction, let us assume that there
exists an adversary A that can output a blinded membership proof (πt′ ′ ,x , aux)
for an element x ∈ St with non-negligible probability s.t.,

                                   MemVer(UnBlindProof(Acct , st, πt′ ′ ,x ) =
                                                     ′
                 = 0 ∧ VerBlindProofUpd(pp, Acct′ , πt,x , πt′ ′ ,x , aux) = 1.

Since the applied NIZK for the discrete logarithm equality NP-relation is an
argument of knowledge, the extractor E outputs the triplet (a, b, z) satisfying
the NIZK.Verify function with non-negligible probability. Thus, there exists a
                        Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs          39


  NIZK.Prove(pp, RPoEEq , (g, u, h, v), crs, crsg , q ∗ (X)):
      1. ge ← KZG.Com(crs, q ∗ (X))
      2. α ← H(g, u, h, v)
      3. h(X) ← q ∗ (X)/(X + α)
      4. β ← q ∗ (X) mod (X + α)
      5. Qg ← KZG.Com(crsg , h(X))
      6. Qh ← KZG.Com(crs, St (X) · h(X))
      7. gb ← KZG.Com(crs, h(X))
      8. return π := (eg , Qg , Qh , gb, β)

  NIZK.Verify(pp, RPoEEq , (g, u, h, v), crs, crsg , π):
          g , Qg , Qh , gb, β) ← π
      1. (e
      2. α ← H(b   g , g, u, h, v)
                                              ?
      3. eq1 := e(Qg , g2τ +α ) · e(g β , g2 ) = e(u, g2 )
                                                ?
      4. eq2 := e(Qh , g2τ +α ) · e(hβ , g2 ) = e(v, g2 )
                                              ?
                  g , g2τ +α ) · e(g1β , g2 ) = e(e
      5. eq3 := e(b                               g , g2 )
      6. return 1 if eq1 ∧ eq2 ∧ eq3



Fig. 14: A non-interactive zero-knowledge (NIZK) proof system for the relation
RPoEEq using the Fiat–Shamir heuristic.


                         ′
value ∆ s.t. (g, Acct , πt,x ) = (g ∆ , Acc∆     ′    ∆
                                           t , (πt,x ) ). Unblinding the blinded RSA
membership proof update yields

                                                      πt′ ′ ,x
                                           πt′ ,x =            .
                                                       Br
Substituting this into the MemVer algorithm, we have πtx′ ,x = Acct′ as desired.
Thus, the only way an adversary could produce a valid BlindProofUpd that leads
to an invalid unblinded proof is by breaking the knowledge soundness of the
applied NIZK.


B.2     RSA Non-membership Proof Delegation

Theorem 6 (The RSA accumulator is privately delegatable for non-
membership proofs). Our construction in Figure 5 yields a secure, privately
delegatable non-membership proof update scheme for the RSA accumulator under
strong RSA and factoring assumptions in the ROM.

Proof. Correctness. For x ∈  / St , we have πt′ ,x ′ = {a, g b }, for (a, b) ← Bezout(s∗ , x·
q). The unblinded non-membership proof is obtained by B ′ := (g b )q , while the
Bézout-coefficient a remains unchanged. By construction, as∗ + b(xq) = 1. Due
to the commutativity of integer multiplication, we also have as∗ + bq(x) = 1.
Thus, (a, bq) are the Bézout-coefficients of s∗ and x, as required.
40     Soóki-Tóth et al.

    Weak Blinded Non-Membership Proof Indistinguishability. Let us
assume that there is an efficient adversary A that on input N := πt,x ′ outputs
                                   1
with non-negligible probability poly(λ) to which element x ∈ {0, 1}λ the blinded
non-membership proof belongs, i.e., N = x · q for some primes x, q ∈ Primes(λ).
Adversary A can be used by another machine B to break the factoring assump-
tion. Machine B on any input N should just forward its input to A who factors
it, by assumption, with non-negligible probability. Adversary B clearly has the
same time-complexity and success probability as A in its own weak blinded
non-membership proof indistinguishability game.
    Delegation soundness. Towards contradiction, assume that there exists an
adversary A that outputs x ∈  / St and a blinded non-membership proof πt′ ,x ′ =
{a, B} for the updated accumulator Acct′ such that
                                         g = Accat′ · B y
holds in the blinded verification (for some exponent y used in the blinded update
protocol), but the RSA accumulator’s non-membership proof verification fails for
the corresponding unblinded proof, i.e.,
                                       g ̸= Accat′ · (B q )x .
However, by construction of the blinded update, we have y = q · x. Substituting
this into the first equation yields
                             g = Accat′ · B qx = Accat′ · (B q )x ,
which directly contradicts the inequality above. Hence, both equations cannot
hold simultaneously with non-negligible probability, and no such adversary A
can exist.

B.3   Bilinear Membership Proof Delegation
Theorem 7 (Bilinear accumulator is privately delegatable). The con-
struction in Figure 6 is a secure, privately delegatable membership proof update
scheme for the bilinear accumulator under q-SDH in the algebraic group model
and ROM.
Proof. Correctness. By the definition of the blinding algorithm, we have that
crs′j = {KZG.Com(rX i q(X))}ki=1 . Let us denote the polynomial of the newly
                                                             Qk
added elements {xi }ki=1 in the monomial bases as q ∗ (X) = i=1 (X − xi ) =
Qk        j
  j=0 aj X . Using the homomorphic properties of KZG, in the BlindProofUpd(·)
algorithm, we have
                                       k
                                       Y                  k
                                                          Y
                         πt′ ′ ,sj =       (crs′j )aj =         KZG.Com(rX j q(X))aj =
                                       j=0                j=0
                                                                  
          k
          Y                                       Xk
                KZG.Com aj · rX j q(X) = KZG.Com    aj · X j rq(X) ,
                                              
      =
          j=0                                                      j=0
                       Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs                   41

factoring out the update independent polynomial rq(X) yields the following.
                                                                 
                   k
                   X                                     Xk
       KZG.Com      aj · X j rq(X) = KZG.Com rq(X) ·      aj X j  =
                      j=0                                                      j=0

                                                            = KZG.Com (rq(X)q ∗ (X)) .

By the unblinding algorithm, UnBlindProof(·), we have that
                                                     −r
   (πt′ ′ ,sj )−r = KZG.Com (rq(X)q ∗ (X))                = KZG.Com (q(X)q ∗ (X)) = πt′ ,sj ,

as desired. Therefore, πt′ ,sj is indeed the KZG commitment to the new quotient
polynomial q(X)q ∗ (X).
    Blinded Membership Proof Indistinguishability. In the blinded mem-
bership proof indistinguishability game, the adversary chooses s0 , s1 and sees a
crs randomized by the challenger with r ∈R Fp , i.e., crs′ := {KZG.Com(rX i qb (X)}ki=1 ,
                   f (X)
where qb (X) = X−s      b
                          , for b ∈R {0, 1}. Since qb (τ ) ̸= 0, let s := r · qb (τ ). Since
in both cases s is uniform, i.e., s ∼ U (Fp ), and multiplication by a non-zero
constant in Fp is a permutation, in both cases, the adversary sees the distri-
             i
bution {g sτ }ki=1 for a secret s ∈ Fp . Thus, regardless of which element has
been chosen by the challenger, A sees perfectly indistinguishable distributions
     i            ∗ i
{g sτ }ki=1 ≈ {g s τ }ki=1 for the challenger chosen (s, s∗ ) ∈R F2p .
    Delegation Soundness. The NIZK proof system applied for the NP-language
RPoEEq was shown to be knowledge sound in the algebraic group model [66].
Thus, if aux is verified for the statement of the polynomial exponentiation equal-
                                                ′
ity RP oEEq , then for the public instance (πt,s  j
                                                    , πt′ ′ ,sj , Acct , Acct′ ), there is a poly-
          ∗          ≤k
nomial q (X) ∈ Fp [X] s.t.
                                     ∗                         ∗
                         ′
                       (πt,sj
                              )q (τ ) = πt′ ′ ,sj ∧ (Acct )q (τ ) = Acct′ ,               (B.4)

where τ is the trapdoor of the KZG crs. We see in Equation (B.4) that q ∗ (X)
                                Qk
encodes the update polynomial i=1 (X − xi ) between the two accumulator
digests Acct and Acct′ . Thus,

                                −1
                                                       ∗
                                                              r−1   mod p
                (πt′ ′ ,sj )r        mod p
                                             = g rq(τ )q (τ )                = πt′ ,sj    (B.5)

is a valid membership proof as required.


B.4    Bilinear Non-membership Proof Delegation

Theorem 8 (Bilinear accumulator is privately delegatable for non-
membership proofs). Our construction in Figure 7 yields a secure, privately
delegatable non-membership proof update scheme for the bilinear accumulator
under q-SDH in the ROM.
42        Soóki-Tóth et al.

Proof. Correctness. First, the client generates a short randomized common ref-
erence string crs′ := {g r1 qt,sj (τ ) , g r1 τ qt,sj (τ ) } which is used by the server to KZG-
commit to the polynomial X − sn+1 , i.e., Q′ := KZG.Com(crs′ , X − sn+1 ). Then,
in the UnBlindNonMemProof(·) algorithm, the client rerandomizes Q′ and ob-
                     −1
tains Q = (Q′ )r1 mod p ·g yt,sj = g τ qt,sj (τ )−sn+1 qt,sj (τ )+yt,sj = KZG.Com(crs, (X−
sn+1 )qt,sj (X)+yt,sj ), which is exactly the desired quotient polynomial for the up-
dated non-membership proof, cf. Equation (5.3). Similarly, the client blinds yt,sj
      ′                                                           ′                         ′
to yt,s  j
           = r2 · yt,sj . In turn, the server computes yt+1,s           j
                                                                           = sn+1 · yt,s       j
                                                                                                 which is de-
randomized at the end of the protocol by the client in the UnBlindNonMemProof(·)
                                 ′                                   ′
algorithm as yt,sj sj − yt+1,s           j
                                           /r2 = yt,sj sj − sn+1 · yt,s  j
                                                                           /r2 = yt,sj sj − sn+1 · r2 ·
yt,sj /r2 = yt,sj sj − sn+1 yt,sj , which is the desired scalar element required by the
updated non-membership proof recurrence relation, cf. Equation (5.3).
     Blinded Non-Membership Proof Indistinguishability. Given two blinded
membership proofs πt,s0 ′ = {crs′0 , r0,2 · yt,s0 } and πt,s1 ′ = {crs′1 , r1,2 · yt,s1 } for
crs′0 := {g r0,1 qt,s0 (τ ) , g r0,1 τ qt,s0 (τ ) } and crs′1 := {g r1,1 qt,s1 (τ ) , g r1,1 τ qt,s1 (τ ) }, it is
clear that πt,s0 ′ is information-theoretically indistinguishable from πt,s1 ′ , since,
first, r0,2 · yt,s0 ≈s r1,2 · yt,s1 for uniformly random (r0,2 , r1,2 ) ← F2p , and second,
crs′0 ≈s crs′1 , because r0,1 and r1,1 act as random permutations on crs0 and crs1 .
     Delegation Soundness. Consider any PPT adversary (PSN) that, given
  ′
πt,s    and the public update (sn+1 , Acct , Acct+1 ), outputs (πt+1,s            ′         , aux) such that
     j                                                                                    j
                                           ′       ′
VerBlindNonMemProofUpd(πt,sj , πt+1,sj , sn+1 , Acct+1 , aux) = 1. We show that,
except with negligible probability, the unblinded witness πt+1,sj returned by
UnBlindNonMemProof is a valid non-membership proof for sj ∈                                   / St+1 under
Acct+1 . The pairing check can be rewritten, using bilinearity and Acct+1 =
     τ −s
Acct n+1 , as an equality of exponents in G1 linking Q′t and Q′t+1 via the
same factor (τ − sn+1 ). By soundness of the accumulator and binding of KZG
commitments, any deviation of Q′t+1 from the honest updated value (i.e., the
commitment to r1 qt+1,sj (τ ), where qt+1,sj (X) = (X − sn+1 )qt,sj (X) + yt,sj )
would violate this pairing equation except with negligible probability. Finally, in
UnBlindNonMemProof the client computes
                                                 −1
                              Q := (Q′t+1 )r1 · g yt,sj = g qt+1,sj (τ ) ,

so πt+1,sj = (Q, yt+1,sj ) is exactly the standard non-membership witness for sj ∈
                                                                                 /
St+1 under Acct+1 . Therefore, the probability that a PPT adversary produces an
accepting transcript for VerBlindNonMemProofUpd while the resulting unblinded
witness is invalid is negligible.


B.5      Server-side Batching

The following theorem states that asymptotic server-side batching for our mem-
bership proof delegation protocols (cf. Figures 4 and 6), i.e., O(n): sublinear in
the number of delegation requests, is impossible in the generic group model.
Specifically, we assume there are n users trying to update their membership
proofs for the same transition t → t′ . Then, the membership proof update, at a
                   Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs      43

high level, translates to exponentiating n random group {gi }ni=1 with the same
exponent x. As we show next, this computation needs Ω(n) exponentiation.

Lemma 2 (Linear lower bound for component-wise exponentiation in
the generic group model). Let G be a cyclic group of prime order p in the
generic group model. Let g1 , . . . , gn ∈ G be independent random group elements
and let x ∈ Zp be known. Any generic algorithm that outputs

                                  (g1x , g2x , . . . , gnx )

must perform at least n oracle queries. In particular, the generic complexity of
this task is Ω(n).

Proof. Fix a generator g of G and write

                                       gi = g αi ,
                    $
                         − Znp are independent, uniform random exponents unknown
where (α1 , . . . , αn ) ←
to the algorithm. By the standard analysis of generic algorithms [64], every group
element computed by a generic algorithm can be written as

                                     g L(α1 ,...,αn )

where L is a linear polynomial
                                                      n
                                                      X
                            L(α1 , . . . , αn ) =              aj αj
                                                      j=1

with coefficients aj ∈ Zp known to the algorithm.
   Thus, each known group element corresponds to a vector

                             a = (a1 , . . . , an ) ∈ Znp .

   Let Vt ⊆ Znp denote the linear span of all coefficient vectors corresponding to
elements known by the algorithm after t oracle queries.
   Initially the algorithm knows g1 , . . . , gn , corresponding to the vectors

                                      e1 , . . . , e n ,

where ei is the i-th standard basis vector. Hence

                             V0 = span{e1 , . . . , en }.

   Each oracle query (group multiplication or inversion) produces at most one
new group element, whose coefficient vector is a linear combination of previously
known vectors. Consequently, after t oracle queries the algorithm knows at most
n + t group elements.
   The desired outputs are
                                  gix = g xαi ,
44      Soóki-Tóth et al.

which correspond to the vectors

                                     xe1 , . . . , xen .

   Since the αi are independent random variables, these elements are inde-
pendent group elements. Therefore, the algorithm must explicitly produce the
encoding of each gix .
   As each oracle query can produce at most one new group element, producing
n distinct outputs requires at least n oracle queries. Thus, any generic algorithm
computing (g1x , . . . , gnx ) requires at least n oracle queries, proving the Ω(n) lower
bound.
   It would be fascinating to prove lower bounds for the server complexity of
updating n client non-membership proofs in the standard or even just in the
generic or algebraic group models. We leave this seemingly harder problem to
future work.


C     Extended Performance Evaluation
Next, we detail some performance measurements that we did not include in the
main text due to space constraints.

C.1    Runtime Breakdown of (Non-)Membership Proof Updates
Figure 15 illustrates what percentage of the runtime is spent on various cryp-
tographic operations, i.e., hashing, exponentiation (multi-scalar multiplication
(MSM) in case of the bilinear accumulator), and NIZK proving during pri-
vate (non-)membership proof updates when updating for a single element (i.e.,
k = 1). We note that in the case of private membership proof updates, the size
of the exponent grows linearly in k (cf. Section 7.1), making exponentiation the
dominant operation. For all instantiations of the RSA accumulator, we expect
that, as k → ∞, the dominant cost will be the exponentiation costs. Luckily,
specialized hardware chips that can compute exponentiation in groups of un-
known order (i.e., in RSA and class groups) extremely fast are already available
due to verifiable delay function deployments [12]. These hardware chips could
be leveraged by PSNs for these computational tasks.

C.2    Case Study: PSN for Stateless Blockchains from the RSA
       Accumulator
We study the operation and communication costs of deploying a PSN for the
stateless blockchain use case, whenever the unspent coins are accumulated us-
ing the trapdoorless RSA accumulator, cf. Figure 16. Observe in Figure 16 that
the RSA membership proof delegation protocol that we developed can support
arbitrarily scalable stateless blockchains, since there is no public parameter that
would limit the desired proof update functionality. However, we also see that the
                                                                                            Private Delegation of Cryptographic Accumulator Proofs                                                                                                  45




                                                                                                             Exponentiation                                                                  Hashing          NIZK




                              Share of measured update time (%)
                                                                  100

                                                                       80

                                                                       60

                                                                       40

                                                                       20

                                                                        0
                                                                                   em r               em            em                                                                       em                    em               em
                                                                                  M nea              M SA          M lass                                                                n M ar                n M               n M s
                                                                                                                                                                                               e                    A                 s
                                                                                     li               R             C                                                                  No ilin               No RS             No Cla
                                                                                  Bi                                                                                                     B

  Fig. 15: Runtime breakdown in terms of exponentiation, hashing and NIZK prov-
  ing of (non-)membership proof updates when updating for a single element.




                                                                   00         00      2         1                  103                                                                        00         2       1
                                   2                              e+         e+      e-0
                                                                                    1.0
                                                                                              e-0
                                                                                             1.8
                                                                                                        2
                                                                                                      2.8                                                                               2    e+        e-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                      5.0
                                                                                                                                                                                                               e-0
                                                                                                                                                                                                              8.4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        .4
                                                                                                                                                                                                                        13
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 4.1
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                21
                                                          0.0               0.0                                                                                                             0.0                                           104
                                                                                                                   102




Blockchain Throughput (tps)                                                                                                                              Blockchain Throughput (tps)
                                                                   00         00      2         1                                                                                             2          1
                                   4                                                                                                                                                    4




                                                                                                                         Communication complexity (PB)
                                                                                     e-0      e-0      .27                                                                                   e-0       e-0              .7       0.7
                                                          0.0
                                                                  e+         e+
                                                                            0.0     4.0      7.0      11                                                                                    1.0       1.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                               2.9      45      73        103
                                                                                                                   101




                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Server cost (USD)
                                   8
                                                                   00
                                                                  e+
                                                                              2
                                                                             e-0      1
                                                                                     e-0       2       .09                                                                              8
                                                                                                                                                                                              2
                                                                                                                                                                                             e-0         1
                                                                                                                                                                                                       e-0     9.7      5.9       .6
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 93       102
                                                          0.0               1.0     1.8      2.8      45           100                                                                      4.0       6.1               15     24
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          101
                              16
                                                                   00
                                                                  e+
                                                                              2
                                                                             e-0      1
                                                                                     e-0      .27      0.3  5      10 1                                                                16
                                                                                                                                                                                              1
                                                                                                                                                                                             e-0       2.1      .2      1.9       .7
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                 09
                                                          0.0               4.0     7.0      11       18                                                                                    1.3                33       53     85
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          100
                                                                                                                   10 2
                              32
                                                                  e-02       e-01     2      45       72
                                                                                                            9
                                                                                                                                                                                       32
                                                                                                                                                                                             e-01      7.1    11      1815     2903
                                                            1.0             1.8     2.8        .09      1.3                                                                                 4.4                 3.4       .0       9.8
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                          10 1
                                                                                                                   10 3

                              64
                                                                  e-02       e-01   11       18
                                                                                                5    2885                                                                              64             24      38      6193     9909
                                                            4.0             7.0       .27      0.3       .56       10 4
                                                                                                                                                                                             1.5        .2      7.1       .7       9.7    10 2

                                                                   0          1      21       341        1                                                                                    0         1       21      341        1
                                                                                                      546                                                                                                                       546
                                                                   PSN server running time (days)                                                                                                 PSN server running time (days)
                                                        (a) Communication costs (in PB)                                                                                                      (b) Operational costs (in USD)

  Fig. 16: Stateless Blockchain case study. Communication costs (in PB) and oper-
  ational costs (in USD) of a PSN server for a given stateless blockchain throughput
  and uptime for the RSA accumulator.
46     Soóki-Tóth et al.

RSA proof delegation algorithms incur higher communication and operational
costs to the PSN server compared to the bilinear accumulator case (again, proof
delegation running times for larger update sizes were approximated from Fig-
ure 9a using linear regression). We believe that the measured operational costs
are reasonable for a real-world PSN deployment. For example, running a PSN
server would cost ≈ 100K USD when updating RSA membership proofs for
the users of a stateless blockchain with 64 transaction per second for an entire
year. On the other hand, these numbers translate into ≈ 5.94 × 10−10 USD cost
for the client for each transaction submitted, which we can consider to be an
economically negligible cost.
