             UnifOMR: Oblivious Message Retrieval with
                  Near-optimal Concrete Efficiency
       Ben Fisch                 Zeyu Liu             Eran Tromer            Yunhao Wang
    Yale University           Yale University        Boston University       Yale University
benjamin.fisch@yale.edu      zeyu.liu@yale.edu        tromer@bu.edu       yunhao.wang@yale.edu

                                         May 9, 2026


                                            Abstract
     End-to-end encryption guarantees message confidentiality but does not hide metadata such
as communication patterns among senders and recipients, or their identities. Oblivious Message
Retrieval (OMR) is a cryptographic protocol that enables servers to assist recipients in retrieving
their messages from a database without learning the mapping between messages and recipients,
thereby protecting such metadata.
     This paper investigates two central questions of OMR: (1) What is the precise relationship
between OMR and the better-studied primitive of Private Information Retrieval (PIR)? (2) Can
OMR schemes achieve concrete efficiency comparable to state-of-the-art PIR protocols?
     We show that OMR with a property we call strong detection-key-unlinkability is at least as
hard as PIR, and that existing OMR constructions already satisfy this property. This PIR-to-
OMR reduction has low overhead, suggesting that OMR cannot be made substantially more
efficient than PIR.
     We then present UnifOMR, which achieves 20× to 1080× faster server runtime over the state-
of-the-art SophOMR under practical parameter settings. For 219 messages of 612 bytes each,
UnifOMR completes in only ∼25 seconds with 4 MB of communication, compared to > 1250
seconds and 260 KB for SophOMR. These gains come with two trade-offs: an asymptotically
linear digest size (albeit with small constants), and two rounds of interaction between the
detector and the client.
     Furthermore, crucially, UnifOMR uses batch PIR as a black-box component, which in our
experiments accounts for 50–92% of the server runtime. Thus, UnifOMR nearly matches the
aforementioned lower bound concretely (for databases of 216 to 223 messages, each with 612 to
3060 bytes), given the status quo of batch PIR.
     Thus, our results provide both a theoretical foundation for understanding OMR and a prac-
tical step toward making it deployable in real-world privacy-preserving systems.




                                                 1
Contents
1 Introduction                                                                                          4
  1.1 Our Contribution . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      5
  1.2 Related Works . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       6

2 Technical Overview                                                                                    6
  2.1 The Efficiency Bound of OMR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .           6
  2.2 A New OMR Construction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .            8

3 Oblivious Message Retrieval                                                                        10
  3.1 Models . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
  3.2 Definition . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11

4 Preliminary                                                                                          17
  4.1 Notation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
  4.2 Hardness Assumption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        17
  4.3 Private Information Retrieval . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      17
  4.4 Public Key Encryption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      19
  4.5 Additively Homomorphic Encryption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          21

5 The Relationship Between OMR and PIR                                                          22
  5.1 OMR Implies PIR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22
  5.2 OMR Implies Key-private PKE . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25

6 The Main OMR Construction                                                                            27
  6.1 Overview of Retrieval based on Additively Homomorphic Encryption . . . . . . . . .               28
  6.2 Full Construction with Reduced Communication . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .             29
  6.3 Additional Optimizations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       33

7 Evaluation                                                                                      33
  7.1 Parameter Selection . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
  7.2 Comparison and Benchmark . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 36

8 Conclusion                                                                                           38

Acknowledgements                                                                                       39

References                                                                                             40

A Additional OMR Definition                                                                            48

B BFV Additive Homomorphic Encryption                                                                  48

C Additively Homomorphic Secret Key Encryption Implies PIR                                             49




                                                   2
D Additional Discussion on Evaluation                                                                 52
  D.1 Baselines . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   52
  D.2 Additional Benchmarks . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       52
      D.2.1 Parameter Set 1 Efficiency Breakdown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          52
      D.2.2 Parameter Set 2 Efficiency Breakdown . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .          52
  D.3 Alternative Batch PIR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     52
  D.4 Comparison to InstantOMR [54] . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       54

E Open Questions                                                                                      55




                                                   3
1    Introduction
In message delivery systems, end-to-end encryption is a baseline requirement for ensuring privacy.
However, this alone is insufficient. In particular, metadata, such as the identities of senders and
recipients, the communication graph between them, or even the timestamps of messages alone can
leak highly sensitive information [7, 67, 72, 74, 87].
    As such, protecting metadata, especially recipient privacy, is essential in systems that aim to
provide strong privacy guarantees, including private messaging [91, 28, 64, 16, 9] and privacy-
preserving blockchains [76, 12, 45, 18]. A straightforward solution is for the recipient to download
and attempt to decrypt all messages using their secret key, retaining only the ones successfully
decrypted. However, this imposes substantial communication and computation costs, especially for
resource-constrained clients such as mobile users. A natural question is whether this task can be
securely outsourced to a server, without compromising recipient privacy.
    To address this, Liu and Tromer introduced the notion of Oblivious Message Retrieval (OMR)
in 2022 [58], a primitive designed precisely to enable such outsourcing (and we survey other related
primitives in Section 1.2). In an OMR system, senders transmit messages to recipients without
revealing recipient identities. Each message includes a payload (e.g., a transaction or photo) and a
clue, generated using the recipient’s clue key. These messages are posted to a public bulletin board
(e.g., a blockchain ledger or messaging server database). To retrieve their messages, a recipient
sends a detection key to a server, called a detector, which uses it to scan the bulletin board and
produce a digest. The recipient then decodes the digest to recover the payloads addressed to them.
We describe the system model of OMR in more detail in Section 3.1.
    Despite several follow-up works that improve various aspects of OMR [59, 60, 47, 57, 51, 27],
two important open questions remain. The first concerns the relationship between OMR and
the well-studied primitive of Private Information Retrieval (PIR) [26]. At first glance, one might
wonder whether PIR is already sufficient to achieve OMR. Indeed, several OMR constructions have
considered using PIR as a subroutine [58, 47, 27]. However, OMR introduces unique challenges
that are not obviously addressed by PIR. This raises the following fundamental question:
    What is the relationship between OMR and PIR? Is OMR weaker or at least as hard as PIR?
    This question is not only theoretically interesting for understanding the boundaries between
primitives but also practically significant. PIR is known to have tight lower bounds on effi-
ciency [26, 10, 92]. If OMR is at least as powerful as PIR, then these bounds would also apply
to OMR. Furthermore, if the reduction is tight (i.e., an explicit construction of PIR from OMR
involves little efficiency overhead), then OMR can hardly outperform the best known PIR schemes.
Understanding this relationship is thus key to setting expectations for OMR performance.
    The second question concerns concrete efficiency. All known single-server OMR protocols rely on
fully homomorphic encryption (FHE) [58, 59, 60, 57, 51, 27], and require evaluating deep circuits,
which severely limits performance. For example, the state-of-the-art single-server construction
SophOMR [51] takes over 1250 seconds to generate a response for a recipient when there are 219
messages in total, each containing a 612-byte payload, with 50 messages pertinent to the recipi-
ent. As acknowledged in prior works [58, 60, 51], the detector’s runtime is the main performance
bottleneck (see also Section 8). In contrast, batch PIR (e.g., VecBatchPIR [73]) can handle the
same parameters in < 15 seconds. This highlights a substantial performance gap between the two
primitives. Thus, the second question is:
    Can we construct OMR schemes whose server-side performance approaches that of state-of-the-
art batch PIR?

                                                 4
    In this work, we address both questions. First, we prove that OMR, with an additional property
satisfied by all existing single-server constructions, is strictly stronger than PIR as a cryptographic
primitive. Moreover, this PIR-to-OMR reduction is tight. Second, we present a new OMR con-
struction, UnifOMR, that is ∼50× faster than SophOMR, and within a factor of 2 of the PIRANA
scheme in terms of server-side runtime.

1.1       Our Contribution
Efficiency lower bound. We first establish the efficiency (lower) bound of OMR via PIR, both
asymptotically and concretely:
       • We prove that an OMR construction can be used to build PIR with essentially no overhead,
         as long as the OMR scheme is strongly detection-key-unlinkable, a notion extended from the
         detection-key-unlinkability property introduced in [58]. While newly defined in this paper,
         this property is satisfied by all the existing single-server OMR constructions [58, 59, 60, 57, 51],
         as we will show.
         Furthermore, this low-overhead reduction implies that such an OMR construction cannot be
         more concretely efficient than a PIR scheme with essentially the same database size.
       • As a side result, we show that OMR is at least as hard as public key encryption with two special
         properties, key-privacy and wrong-key-decryption (Section 4.4). While this does not directly
         prove that PIR does not imply OMR, it provides strong evidence towards this direction and
         strengthens the theoretical understanding of OMR.
A new OMR construction. We then present a new OMR construction, UnifOMR available at
[77]), unifying the concrete performance of OMR and PIR as follows:
       • UnifOMR relies only on additively homomorphic encryption (AHE) instead of FHE as in
         prior works. Specifically, we use RLWE-based AHE together with batch PIR to build an
         OMR construction.
       • We implement UnifOMR and show that with N = 219 messages each with 612 bytes (param-
         eters in prior works [58, 59, 60, 57, 51]), our runtime is ≈ 25 seconds, which is > 50× faster
         than the state-of-the-art OMR construction, SophOMR [51]. Furthermore, our detection key
         size is only 31MB, about ∼5× smaller than the SophOMR. This is achieved at the cost of
         having the digest size being ∼4MB, instead of ∼200KB as in SophOMR.
         Furthermore, for other parameters (e.g., a larger number of pertinent messages), we achieve
         a similar or better runtime improvement, even with digest size overhead < 2×.
         These are achieved at the cost of having two rounds of communication between the detector
         and the recipient, and having a digest size asymptotically linear in N (thereby also recipient
         runtime), despite being concretely small.
       • Lastly, based on our benchmarks, for UnifOMR, the batchPIR component takes 50-92% of
         the total detector runtime (dependent on parameters). This means that UnifOMR is very
         close to the (concrete) runtime lower bound by the reduction above, given the status quo of
         batchPIR1 .
   1
    Specifically, our performance profiling is based on the current state-of-the-art batchPIR. If a more efficient
batchPIR exists, the relative costs would change and the cost of batchPIR may no longer dominate.


                                                        5
1.2   Related Works
Oblivious Message Retrieval. OMR [58] introduces a message retrieval primitive that achieves
full recipient privacy. GOMR [59] extends this model to a group setting and proposes an optimized
OMR construction. Both constructions rely on a hybrid approach combining the PVW encryption
scheme with a leveled BFV homomorphic encryption scheme. PerfOMR [60] improves upon these by
replacing the PVW encryption with a tailored RLWE-based scheme and modifying the underlying
BFV-based retrieval circuit. This results in improved efficiency over [58, 59] in terms of detector
runtime, clue key size, and clue size. SophOMR [51] introduces additional optimizations that
further reduce the detector runtime, detection key size, and digest size. It currently represents the
state-of-the-art among single-server OMR constructions on a single-thread CPU. A recent work
InstantOMR [54] introduces low-latency OMR which outperforms SophOMR with large number of
cores or small amount of messages. Another recent work [17] introduces ways to accelerate OMR
using GPU.
    A recent line of work explores multi-server OMR. Homerun [47] constructs a two-server OMR
protocol that is concretely more efficient than existing single-server schemes. However, its security
model is restrictive: it requires two non-colluding servers and also all the servers and clients to be
semi-honest (or allow malicious clients but require the servers to be “almost” honest: i.e., cannot
impersonate a malicious client). A follow-up work [27] strengthens the security model by allowing
fully malicious but non-colluding servers (and malicious clients). While the security is improved,
the performance becomes comparable to SophOMR (within a factor of 2). Since our focus is on
single-server OMR, we do not compare extensively with this line of work.
Fuzzy Message Detection. Fuzzy Message Detection (FMD) [9, 80] focuses on decoy-based
security. While this primitive admits highly efficient constructions, the security guarantees are
relatively weak, as discussed in [85]. Therefore, we do not compare directly with these constructions.
Private Signaling. Like OMR, Private Signaling (PS) [66, 46] aims to provide full recipient
privacy. However, prior PS constructions rely on Trusted Execution Environments (TEEs), which
constitute a strong assumption. Many works have shown that existing TEEs are vulnerable to
side-channel attacks that can leak secrets [89]. Although [46] achieves excellent scalability (with
runtime growing only polylogarithmically in the number of messages), we do not compare directly
with it, as we assume a standard software model.
    Another construction is proposed in [66], assuming the same assumption as Homerun [47].
Moreover, its performance is concretely slower than the single-server OMR constructions. Thus,
we do not include it in our comparisons either.


2     Technical Overview
We now give an overview of our techniques. The overview assumes familiarity with the model and
definition of OMR (both presented in Section 3), PIR, and PKE (both recalled in Section 4).

2.1   The Efficiency Bound of OMR
This section summarizes how we establish the efficiency (lower) bound of OMR by showing that
OMR is a strictly stronger primitive than PIR, and building PIR from OMR has essentially no
overhead.


                                                  6
Why PIR and OMR differ. Before presenting a more formal argument, we first clarify why
OMR is intuitively “harder” than PIR.
    On the one hand, both OMR and PIR allow a recipient or client to retrieve data entries from
a database without revealing which entries are being accessed, making them very similar at first
glance. On the other hand, the key distinction is that in PIR, the client knows the indices of the
entries it wishes to retrieve. In contrast, in OMR, the recipient does not know the positions of
its messages in the database. This challenge cannot be addressed by keyword PIR either (where
retrieval is based on keywords rather than indices): In OMR, the recipient cannot rely on a keyword
known to both the recipient and the sender, since no secret is shared between them in the OMR
model. If such a keyword exists, the adversary also knows it and thus breaks privacy.
    Instead, OMR requires each message to include an encrypted tag (the “clue”) which identifies
the intended recipient. Only the recipient with an appropriate secret key can recognize and decrypt
it. For all other parties, the clue appears to be a uniformly random string. This mechanism
fundamentally differs from PIR, where the index or keyword is fixed and known to the client. While
the clue in OMR can serve as a stand-in for the index in PIR (intuitively enabling a reduction from
PIR to OMR), the reverse is intuitively not true: an index or keyword cannot substitute for the
random-looking clue required in OMR.
    In the rest of this section, we give more formal arguments extending from this intuition.
OMR implies PIR. First, we show that OMR with strong-key-unlinkability (which means that
two freshly generated detection keys generated by the same recipient are indistinguishable from
two detection keys generated by two distinct recipients, even given the two recipients’ secret clue
keys) implies PIR with essentially no overhead. In other words, an OMR construction can be used
to build an efficient PIR construction with almost no efficiency loss (in terms of server computation
and communication).We informally capture this as follows and sketch our proof intuition below. It
is formally stated and proven in Theorem 5.1.

Theorem 2.1 (Informal). An OMR construction can be used to construct PIR with the same
number of items in the database with essentially the same performance.

    At a high level, given an OMR construction OMR, we build a PIR scheme as follows. For a
database of N entries, let each entry DB[i] be associated with a clue ci generated using some pkcluei
with the corresponding skcluei . To retrieve entry i, the client uses skcluei to generate a detection key
pair (skdet , pkdet ). This pkdet is then sent to the server, which also holds DB (containing all the N
clues above), to generate a digest using OMR. By the completeness of OMR, the client can decode
the digest to obtain DB[i].
    Security-wise, by OMR’s strong key-unlinkability, even if the server knows skcluei , pkdeti does
not leak any information about i. Therefore, the server does not learn anything about i, satisfying
the privacy requirement of PIR.
    Efficiency-wise, the PIR server runtime is essentially identical to the OMR detector runtime,
and the communication cost between the PIR server and client is the detection key size plus the
digest size.
    Conceptually, this finishes the reduction from PIR to OMR. There are still some gaps left, such
as when the clues are generated and how the false negative rate or false positive rate affects this
reduction. These are more formally addressed in the proof of Theorem 5.1. We also discuss an
alternative reduction from PIR to OMR that achieves slightly different efficiency trade-offs, but
this also follows a similar high-level intuition. Thus, we conclude that OMR implies PIR.


                                                   7
OMR implies key-private PKE. We additionally show that OMR implies PKE with two spe-
cial properties, key-privacy and wrong-key-decryption. Key-privacy (Definition 4.5) means that
ciphertexts under two different public keys are indistinguishable [11]. Wrong-key decryption (Def-
inition 4.5) means that decrypting under a different but honestly generated key results in random
plaintext [58].
    This reduction does not directly prove that OMR is strictly stronger than PIR, since non-trivial
single-server PIR also implies PKE [31, 38]. Nonetheless, it provides evidence that OMR is stronger:
If PIR implies OMR, additively homomorphic symmetric key encryption (AHSKE, which implies
PIR as discussed in Appendix C) implies key-private PKE. To our knowledge, this is still open and
unlikely (Remark C.3).
    Note that this result is only of independent interest, orthogonal to the main contribution of this
work: building an efficient OMR scheme, concretely close to the efficiency lower bound.

Theorem 2.2 (Informal). OMR implies PKE with key-privacy and wrong-key-decryption proper-
ties.

    Indeed, given an OMR construction, we can construct a PKE scheme as follows. The recipi-
ent generates two clue key pairs (skclue0 , pkclue0 ) and (skclue1 , pkclue1 ), and the PKE public key is
PKE.pk := (pkclue0 , pkclue1 ). To encrypt a bit b ∈ {0,1} under this public key, the sender uses pkclueb
to generate a clue cb , with some dummy random payload r ←$ {0,1}λ , and sends ct = (cb , r) as the
ciphertext.
    To decrypt, the recipient uses the detection key pkdetb (generated from skclueb ) to perform
retrieval on the OMR board that consists of the single message ct, and then decodes the generated
digest into Mb using skdetb , for b ∈ {0,1}. If the encrypted bit is 0, M0 contains r by the completeness
of OMR. If the encrypted bit is 1, M0 does not contain r by the soundness of OMR, while M1
contains r by the completeness of OMR. This guarantees the correctness of the PKE scheme.
    CPA security holds by the privacy of OMR: no PTT algorithm is able to distinguish a clue
generated via pkclue0 or pkclue1 unless holding skclue0 or skclue1 . Similarly, key-privacy is guaranteed.
Since wrong-key-decryption requires another minor change to the construction, we defer it to Sec-
tion 5.2.
This then concludes the intuition behind why OMR implies key-private PKE.

2.2   A New OMR Construction
Now, we discuss our new OMR construction UnifOMR. The main workflow of our UnifOMR is
summarized in Fig. 1. Step 5 (Steps 5.1-3) is the retrieval process, which is the main inefficiency
of all prior single-server OMR constructions and the main new technical contribution of UnifOMR.
Identify the source of inefficiency. Observe that the main computational inefficiency of existing
single-server OMR constructions is mainly incurred by the use of (leveled) fully homomorphic
encryption schemes: The circuits they compute are very deep, usually > 20 levels of multiplication.
    Such a deep circuit is used to achieve the so-called compactness. In essence, it means that
the digest size should be independent of the bulletin board size N (at most polylogarithmically
dependent). This is asymptotically attractive, since it means that the data that the recipient needs
to download is almost independent of N . However, our main insight is that, while compactness is
theoretically interesting, achieving it is unnecessarily costly in practice. Concretely, for parameters
used in prior works [58, 59, 60, 51], for 219 messages each with 612 bytes, the digest size is achieved


                                                    8
                                  Figure 1: Workflow of UnifOMR.


to be ∼260KB, while the detector runtime is > 1250 seconds. On the other hand, we observe
that if we relax this asymptotic requirement, we still get a construction that is reasonably small
in terms of concrete digest size (only ∼ 4MB), and this gap from SophOMR’s digest size can be
further reduced given a larger payload size (see Section 7). Simultaneously, the detector runtime
is much smaller, since we replace the deep circuit with a simple linear circuit, introduced below.
Client-aided retrieval. Recall that, as in prior works, to send a message to a recipient with
a key pair (skclue , pkclue ), the sender encrypts a vector of zeros 0ℓ under pkclue as a clue c. Then,
to see whether a message is pertinent or not, the recipient decrypts c using skclue . If the message
is pertinent, the decryption results in 0ℓ . Otherwise, the decryption results in a random binary
vector, which is not 0ℓ with 1 − negl(ℓ) probability. This property is achieved by the RLWE-based
PKE scheme we use (see Definition 4.6 for details).
    To outsource this process to the detector, one could encrypt skclue under FHE and let the
detector homomorphically perform this decryption on behalf of the recipient, as in prior works
[58, 59, 60, 57, 51]. As aforementioned, this results in a deep homomorphic circuit. Observe that
under RLWE-based PKE schemes, the decryption circuit has two components: a linear operation
and a range check, and the latter is the main cause of the deep circuit. Thus, we only ask the
detector to perform the linear operation component under FHE (even an additively homomorphic
encryption, AHE, is sufficient).
    Then, the detector sends this “partially decrypted result” back to the recipient. The recipient
decrypts the FHE ciphertexts, performs a range check over the plaintexts (i.e., finishing the clue
ciphertext decryption), and then finds out which messages are pertinent. Lastly, the recipient
uses a batch Private Information Retrieval (batchPIR) with these pertinent indices to obtain the
corresponding payloads. This completes the high-level idea of UnifOMR.
Advantages over the strawman solution. One may observe that there is a strawman solution
where the recipient simply downloads all the clues and locally decrypts all of them. Then, the
recipient performs a batchPIR as in UnifOMR. Compared to UnifOMR, this solution is much
less efficient for the recipients. Specifically, the recipient needs to perform N PKE ciphertext
decryptions, and the communication cost (ignoring the batchPIR component) is |c|·N for clue size |c|
and N messages. Both can be a huge burden for a light client. In comparison, UnifOMR leverages the
SIMD property of the underlying AHE scheme to pack the results via partial decryption, which then


                                                  9
only requires N/D AHE instead of N PKE ciphertexts to be sent, for some packing parameter D.
Similarly, the recipient only needs to decrypt N/D AHE ciphertexts instead of N PKE ciphertexts.
Concretely, this saves 1-3 orders of magnitude for communication and computation (detailed in
Section 7).
Further reducing the communication. To concretely realize the idea, UnifOMR uses RLWE for
both PKE (for clue generation) and AHE (for evaluating partial decryption homomorphically), both
of which incur “errors”. We observe that one could potentially merge the two error terms for the
final digest and then apply “modulus switching” procedure to further reduce the communication
cost. However, this may not be naively achieved if the partial decryptions are done inside the
“slots” of the AHE scheme (Section 4.5). Thus, instead, we use coefficient encoding for the clues
and encode skclue as constant polynomials to make the merging possible.We present the details of
the communication reduction technique in Section 6.2 and present some additional optimizations
in Section 6.3.
    As mentioned, our resulting construction UnifOMR takes only about 25 seconds to retrieve
219 messages, > 50 times faster than the state-of-the-art OMR construction SophOMR [51]. This
advantage can be as high as 1080× for the parameters we tested (see Section 7). Furthermore, our
detection key size is only 31 MB, about 5x smaller.


3     Oblivious Message Retrieval
This section introduces the models (threat model and system model) of Oblivious Message Retrieval
(OMR) and its formal definition.

3.1   Models
Threat model. For completeness and soundness, OMR assumes honest-but-curious adversaries.
The adversary may collude with all parties in the system, including detectors, senders, and recipi-
ents, except for the protection target. They are allowed to view all the public information, generate
new messages honestly, and generate keys honestly (which can be used to generate messages). For
privacy, we allow all parties in the system to be malicious and colluding, except for the protection
target. In this case, the adversary may behave arbitrarily. Note that in both cases, the adversary
is computationally-bounded (i.e., polynomial time).
    In [58], the authors have introduced the DoS-resistance model, where the senders and the
recipient may be malicious while still guaranteeing completeness and soundness. In [57], the authors
proposed a general way to convert a non-DoS-resistant lattice-based OMR to a DoS-resistant, with
very little overhead (about 20%). This conversion also applies to our scheme. Thus, similar to prior
works [60, 51], we focus on the standard model, which is sufficient to achieve the DoS-resistant OMR
with little overhead using [57].
Detailed system model. We start by recalling the model and the problem of Oblivious Message
Retrieval. Note that this is taken directly from [58]. The system components and their high-level
properties are as follows.
    A bulletin board (or board for short), denoted BB, contains N messages, e.g., blockchain trans-
actions or texts. Each message is sent from some sender and addressed to some recipient, whose
identities are supposed to remain private.



                                                 10
    A message consists of a pair (xi , ci ) where xi is the message payload to convey, and ci is a clue
string which helps notify the intended recipient (and only them) that the message is addressed to
them. The clue is generated using the recipient’s public clue key pkclue (corresponding to a secret
clue key skclue ).
    We denote the payload space P, and the clue space C (typically a ciphertext of some PKE
scheme). The whole board BB (i.e., all payloads and clues) is public. (In applications, the payloads
will typically be end-to-end encrypted.)
    At any time, any potential recipient p may retrieve the messages addressed to them in BB. We
call these messages pertinent (to p), and the rest are impertinent.
    A server, called a detector, helps the recipient p retrieve the pertinent messages’ payloads in
a privacy-preserving way. The recipient gives the detector their public detection key pkdet (corre-
sponding to a secret detection key skdet ), and a bound k̄ on the number of pertinent messages they
expect to receive. The detector then utilizes all of the messages (including both clues and payloads)
in BB to generate string dig, called the digest, and sends it to the recipient p. The digest dig should
be much smaller than the board BB (ideally, proportional to k̄).
    The recipient p processes dig to recover all of the pertinent messages with high probability,
assuming a semi-honest detector (for correctness, but malicious for privacy) and that the number
of pertinent messages did not exceed k̄. The false negative rate (probability that a pertinent
message is not recovered from the digest) is denoted by ϵn . The false positive rate (probability that
an impertinent message is output by the recovery procedure) is denoted by ϵp . Both ϵn and ϵp are
small (e.g., under 2−30 and 2−20 respectively).
    There may be many detectors, each supporting many recipients.

3.2   Definition
We first recall the definition of Oblivious Message Retrieval (with some minor changes explained
below). Then, we extend/strengthen one of the properties proposed by [58] and show that all
existing single-server OMR works satisfy this extended property.

Definition 3.1 (w-round Oblivious Message Retrieval (OMR)). A w-round Oblivious Message
Retrieval scheme has the following PPT algorithms:

   • pp ← GenParam(1λ , ϵp , ϵn ): takes a security parameter λ, a false positive rate ϵp , a false
     negative rate ϵn , and outputs a public parameter pp.

   • (skclue , pkclue ) ← GenClueKey(pp) : takes public parameter pp; outputs a clue secret key skclue
     and public key pkclue .

   • (skdet , pkdet ) ← GenDetKey(pp, skclue ) : takes public parameter pp and a secret clue key skclue ;
     outputs a detection secret key skdet and public key pkdet .

   • c ← GenClue(pp, pkclue ) : takes the public parameter pp, a clue key pkclue ; outputs a clue
     c ∈ C.

   • Retrieval is a w-round protocol between the detector and the recipient for w ≥ 1, and then
     for round i ∈ [w]:




                                                  11
          – digi ← Retrievei (pp, BB, pkdet , k̄, auxi ) : the algorithm takes the public parameter pp, a
            bulletin board BB = {(x1 ,c1 ), . . . , (xN ,cN )} of size N , a detection key pkdet , an upper
            bound k̄ on the number of pertinent messages addressed to that recipient, and some
            auxiliary input auxi (which is ⊥ for i = 0, i.e., the first round); outputs a digest digi for
            round i.
          – stRi+1 , auxi+1 ← Decodei (pp, skdet , k̄, digi , stRi ) : takes the public parameter pp, the
            bound k̄, the detection secret key skdet , the digest digi , and (secret) recipient state
            stRi (which is ⊥ for i = 0); outputs a recipient state stRi+1 and auxiliary information
            auxi+1 for the next round.

We first define board generation for completeness and soundness below:
  Definition 3.2 (Board Generation). Given pp, and the size of bulletin board N : arbitrarily
  choose the number of recipients 1 ≤ p ≤ N , and a partition of set [N ] into p subsets S1 , . . . ,Sp
  representing the indices of messages addressed to each party. For each recipient i ∈ [p]: generate
  keys (skcluei , pkcluei ) ← GenClueKey(pp), (skdeti , pkdeti ) ← GenDetKey(pp, skcluei ), and for each j ∈
  Si , generate cj ← GenClue(pkcluei , xj ). Lastly, arbitrarily choose unique payloads (x1 , . . . ,xN ) ∈
  P N (for payload space P). Then, output the board BB = {(x1 ,c1 ), . . . , (xN ,cN )}, the set S1 , and
  (sk1 = (skclue1 , skdet1 ), pk1 = (pkclue1 , pkdet1 )).2
The scheme must satisfy the following properties:

    • (Completeness) For any λ > 0, 0 < ϵp , ϵn < 1: Let pp ← GenParam(1λ , ϵp , ϵn ). Set any
      N = poly(λ), and 0 < k̄ ≤ N . Let a board BB, a set S of pertinent messages, and a key
      pair (sk, pk = (pkclue , pkdet )) be generated as in Definition 3.2 for any choice of p, partition
      and payloads therein. For i ∈ [k], let digi ← Retrieve(BB, pkdet , k̄,auxi ) and stRi+1 , auxi+1 ←
      Decodei (pp, skdet , k̄, digi , stRi ), where aux0 , stR0 = ⊥. Let k = |S| (the number of pertinent
      messages in S). Then either k > k̄ and stRw = overflow, or:

              Pr[xj ∈ stRw | j ∈ S] ≥ (1 − ϵn − negl(λ)), for all j ∈ [N ] .

    • (Soundness) For the same quantifiers as in Completeness:

              Pr[xj ∈ stRw | j ̸∈ S] ≤ (ϵp + negl(λ)), for all j ∈ [N ] .

    • (Computational Privacy) For any λ > 0, 0 < ϵp , ϵn < 1, for any PPT adversary A, and
      P, N = poly(λ): It holds that

               Pr[OMR-SECA                 λ
                         OMR,P,ϵn ,ϵp ,N (1 ) = 1] ≤ 1/2 + negl(λ) .

       where OMR-SEC is defined in Fig. 2.


Definition changes from [58]. We make three minor changes to the interfaces:
   2
     That is, S1 is the indices of messages pertinent to the recipient whose keys are sk1 , pk1 , which WLOG is the first
recipient.



                                                           12
                      OMR-SECA                 λ
                             OMR,P,ϵn ,ϵp ,N (1 )
                       1:    pp ← GenParams(1λ , ϵp , ϵn )
                       2:    for i ∈ [2] :
                       3:      (skclue i , pkclue i ) ← GenClueKey(pp)
                       4:      (skdet i , pkdet i ) ← GenDetKey(pp, skclue i )
                                $
                       5:    b←
                              − {0, 1}, c ← GenClue(pp, pkclue b )
                       6:    st ← (pp, (pkclue i , pkdet i )i∈[2] , P, ϵn , ϵp , N, c)
                       7:    for j ∈ [P ] :
                       8:      (bj , st, k̄j ∈ [N ]) ← A(st, j)
                       9:      stRj,0 , auxj,0 ← ⊥
                      10 :     for i ∈ [w] :
                      11 :          digj,i , st ← A(auxj,i , st)
                      12 :          stRj,i+1 , auxj,i+1 ←
                      13 :               Decodei (pp, skdet bj , k̄j , digj,i , stRj,i )
                      14 :   b′ ← A(st)
                      15 :   return b = b′


                   Figure 2: OMR-SEC: security game for OMR privacy.

• We divide KeyGen to be GenClueKey and GenDetKey. This is to ease the definition of key-
  unlikability introduced in [58] and extension below. Note that [58, Def 9.2] made a similar
  patch to their definition by defining RegenDetectKey(to define key-unlinkability), and we
  merged this patch into the main definition.

• The GenClue interface in [58] takes a payload x ∈ P as an input, while we remove it. We
  believe that GenClue takes x as an input is rather counter-intuitive and more restrictive in
  practice: Specifically, senders need to decide their payloads first before generating the clues.
  Furthermore, to our knowledge, none of the existing OMR constructions uses the payload x
  during the clue generation.

• Lastly, the most major change: we extend Retrieve and Decode to be an interactive process
  between the detector and the recipient for w rounds. Specifically, we define the OMR con-
  struction to be a w-round OMR construction. For each round i ∈ [w], the detector runs
  Retrievei (with pkdet , k̄, and auxi defined below) and sends back digi to the recipient; the
  recipient, with a secret state stR, uses Decodei with input digi (along with skdet and k̄) to
  update its secret state from stRi to stRi+1 and also to output some additional auxiliary infor-
  mation auxi for the detector to process in the next round (and aux0 = ⊥). In the last round,
  the recipient generates stRw , which contains the necessary information (i.e., all the pertinent
  messages). For w = 1, the definition is the same as the original OMR definition.
  To accommodate this change, we change the correctness, soundness, and computational pri-
  vacy definition as well. The first two are straightforward, while the computational privacy
  is more complicated. Specifically, we want to make sure a clue c generated via two different

                                                      13
     public keys pkclue0 and pkclue1 is indistinguishable. This needs to be guaranteed even if the
     adversary (1) sees all the public keys (i.e., line 6 in Fig. 2), and (2) the adversary arbitrarily
     interacts with the recipient who holds the secret detection key via the retrieval protocol (lines
     7-13). For the latter, in more detail, the adversary specifies the secret detection key it wants
     to interact with (line 8), and acts as if it were the detector (line 8 and 13) to generate the
     digest digj for round j ∈ [w]. Then, the recipient uses the Decodei to process digj . Note that
     its secret state stRj is not observable to the adversary (and therefore the very last round of
     Decodew is not necessary since nothing can be seen by the adversary). Again, when w = 1,
     this definition is equivalent to the original OMR definition trivially.
     This is to allow our construction to take advantage of this flexibility to greatly improve
     the concrete efficiency. This was already implicitly allowed by [58] since they discussed the
     possibility of this procedure being interactive, but it was not formally captured in the original
     definition.
It is easy to see that the resulting definition is stronger (i.e., any OMR construction satisfying the
old definition in [58] also satisfies this new definition). Furthermore, the only non-syntactic change
is the change to GenClue when w = 1, which means that the only situation where a construction
satisfying the original OMR definition but not satisfying our definition is when the construction
needs to use the payload in a non-trivial way during clue generation, which again could be restrictive
in real-world applications.
Compactness. We omit the formal definition of compactness, since we do not use it for our
construction. However, for completeness of this paper, we include it in Appendix A.
Definition 3.3. An OMR scheme is detection-key-unlinkable if for any λ > 0, 0 < ϵp , ϵn < 1, for
any PPT adversary A, and P, N = poly(λ), it holds that:

      Pr[OMR-SDKUA                 λ
                 OMR,P,ϵn ,ϵp ,N (1 ) = 1] ≤ 1/2 + negl(λ) .

where OMR-DKU is defined in Fig. 3.
   Its difference from strong-detection-key-unlinkability (Fig. 4) is shown in blue (i.e., line 6 does
not take skclue ).
Remark 3.4. In [58, Section 9], the authors additionally defined the full-key-unlinkability. Es-
sentially, it says that a recipient arbitrarily regenerates public detection keys and public clue keys
while the fresh keys cannot be associated with the previously generated keys (given all the public
information). This is irrelevant to the gist of this work, so we omit the details. However, we note
that UnifOMR indeed possesses this property in a straightforward way.

Strong detection-key-unlinkability. In this work, we define a stronger detection-key-unlinkability
property: The adversary is given the randomness used to generate skclue , pkclue , but still cannot link
a public detection key to a specific recipient. Formally, it is defined as follows:
Definition 3.5. A w-round OMR scheme is strong detection-key-unlinkable if for any λ > 0, 0 <
ϵp , ϵn < 1, for any PPT adversary A, and P, N = poly(λ), it holds that:

      Pr[OMR-SDKUA                   λ
                 OMR,N,P,ϵn ,ϵp ,N (1 ) = 1] ≤ 1/2 + negl(λ) .

where OMR-SDKU is defined in Fig. 4.

                                                 14
                          OMR-DKUA                 λ
                                 OMR,P,ϵn ,ϵp ,N (1 )
                           1:    pp ← GenParams(1λ , ϵp , ϵn )
                           2:    for i ∈ [2] :
                           3:      (skclue i , pkclue i ) ← GenClueKey(pp)
                           4:      (skdet i , pkdet i ) ← GenDetKey(pp, skclue i )
                                    $
                           5:    b←
                                  − {0, 1}
                           6:    st ← (pp, (pkclue i )i∈[2] , pkdet b , P, N )
                           7:    for j ∈ [P ] :
                           8:      (k̄j ∈ [N ], st) ← AGenDetKey(pp,skclue b ) (st, j)
                           9:      stRj,0 , auxj,0 ← ⊥
                          10 :     for i ∈ [w] :
                          11 :          digj,i , st ← AGenDetKey(pp,skclue b ) (auxj,i , st)
                          12 :          stRj,i+1 , auxj,i+1 ←
                          13 :               Decodei (pp, skdet b , k̄j , digj,i , stRj,i )
                          14 :   b′ ← AGenDetKey(pp,skclue b ) (st)
                          15 :   return b = b′


            Figure 3: OMR-DKU: security game for OMR detection-key-unlinkability.


    While this property seems stronger than the standard detection-key-unlinkability property, in-
terestingly, all the existing single-server OMR constructions satisfy such a property (except for the
feasibility result in [58, Alg 5], which only served as a stepping stone towards the main constructions;
see also Remark 3.7). Specifically, we formalize the following lemma :

Lemma 3.6. OMRp1, OMRp2 [58, Alg 7&8], OMR-OPT [59, Alg 2], PerfOMR1, PerfOMR2 [60,
Alg 4& 5], SophOMR [51, Sec 4], adapted to our interfaces (Definition 3.1) as in the proof, are all
strong detection-key-unlinkable.

Proof. The proof is straightforward: First, all these constructions use a PKE PKE key pair as the
clue key pair and a (leveled) FHE FHE key pair as the detection key pair. Specifically, skclue :=
PKE.sk, pkclue := PKE.pk, skdet := FHE.pk, pkdet := (FHE.pk,FHE.Enc(FHE.sk, PKE.sk)) (where the
last term is PKE.sk encrypted under FHE.sk). Note that the FHE key pair (FHE.sk, FHE.pk) and
the PKE key pair (PKE.sk, PKE.pk) are generated fully independently.
    Then, adapting to our interfaces is simple:

   • For the first change (divding KeyGen to GenClueKey and GenDetKey): let GenClueKey output
     skclue = PKE.sk, pkclue = PKE.pk, and let GenDetKey output skdet := FHE.sk and pkdet :=
     (FHE.pk,FHE.Enc(FHE.sk, PKE.sk)).

   • For the second change (GenClue does not take the payload as input anymore), since these
     constructions do not use the input payload at all in their GenClue, this change does not affect
     anything.


                                                           15
                          OMR-SDKUA                 λ
                                  OMR,P,ϵn ,ϵp ,N (1 )
                           1:    pp ← GenParams(1λ , ϵp , ϵn )
                           2:    for i ∈ [2] :
                           3:         (skclue i , pkclue i ) ← GenClueKey(pp; ri )
                           4:         (skdet i , pkdet i ) ← GenDetKey(pp, skclue i )
                                      $
                           5:    b←
                                  − {0, 1}
                           6:    st ← (pp, (ri )i∈[2] , pkdet b , P, N )
                           7:    for j ∈ [P ] :
                           8:         stRj,0 ← ⊥, auxj,0 ← ⊥
                           9:         (k̄j ∈ [N ]) ← A(st)
                          10 :        for i ∈ [w] :
                          11 :            digj,i , st ← A(auxj,i , st)
                          12 :            stRj,i+1 , auxj,i+1 ←
                          13 :                 Decodei (pp, skdet b , k̄j , digj,i , stRj,i )
                                  ′
                          14 :   b ← A(st)
                          15 :   return b = b′


Figure 4: OMR-SDKU: security game for OMR strong-detection-key-unlinkability. Difference from
Fig. 3 highlighted in blue.


   • For the last change, their Retrieve and Decode processes are one-round, so these constructions
     trivially fit in our definition.

It is easy to see that these do not change anything other than the syntax/presentation of all these
constructions.
     Now, we discuss why these constructions are strong-detection-key-unlinkable: note that FHE.pk
is freshly sampled independent from PKE.sk, which means that FHE.pk has the same distribution
even given the access to the randomness used to generate skclue = PKE.sk, pkclue = PKE.pk. Then,
by the CPA security of FHE, it holds that FHE.Enc(FHE.sk, PKE.sk) is (computationally) the same
distribution given such access as well. Therefore, pkdet := (FHE.pk, FHE.Enc(FHE.sk, PKE.sk)) is
not linkable to any PKE.sk, so all these schemes are strongly-detection-key-unlinkable.

Remark 3.7. OMRt1 [58, Alg 5] does not satisfy our strong-detection-key-unlinkability (Defini-
tion 3.5) because skclue = skdet = FHE.sk. However, this can be easily fixed essentially without
any overhead by having skclue = FHE.sk1 and skdet = FHE.sk2 by sampling two different FHE
secret keys. Then, pkdet = FHE.Enc(sk2 , sk1 ) (encrypting sk1 under sk2 ). Then, replacing the
FHE.Recrypt(pkdet , ci,j ) in [58, Alg 1] with FHE.Eval(ci,j , Decsk1 ) (i.e., homomorphically decrypting
the clue ciphertexts uner ski which is encrypted in pkdet ).
    Furthermore, as mentioned, this construction is only a feasibility result. It serves as a stepping
stone to its main constructions, OMRp1, OMRp2, which both satisfy this property, as shown in the
proof above.



                                                            16
4     Preliminary
4.1    Notation
 Let [n] denote the set {0, . . . , n − 1}. For a vector ⃗v , ⃗v [i] indicates the i-th element of this vector.
 Let R = Z[X]/(X D + 1) denote the 2D-th cyclotomic ring where D is a power-of-two (and here
 [X] denotes “over variable X”), and RQ = R/QR for some Q ∈ Z (i.e., for an element x ∈ RQ , x
 is a degree D polynomial with its coefficients in ZQ ). A ring element a ∈ RQ is represented              as a
 polynomial of degree at most D − 1 and each coefficient being ∈ ZQ : i.e., a := a(X) = i∈[D] ai X i
                                                                                                  P
 where ai ∈ ZQ are the coefficients for all i ∈ [D]. And let a[i] denote the i-th coefficient of a.
 Additionally, let ⃗a ← RingToVec(a) ∈ ZN      Q denote the process of taking all the coefficients of a ∈ RQ
 to form a vector, satisfying ⃗a[i] = a[i]. Drawing x uniformly at random from a set S is denoted
 x ←$ S. T (Procedure) means the runtime of a (potentially interactive) procedure Procedure and
 |x| denotes the bit-size of anP    object x.
     For a ring element y = i yi X i ∈ R, let y[i] denotes its i-th coefficient (i.e., yi ). Then, let
⃗y denotes a vector of all its coefficient, i.e., ⃗y := (y0 , . . . , yD−1 ) ∈ ZD×1 . For a matrix A, A[i][j]
 indicates the cell at the i-th row and j-th column. Furthermore, let A[: ℓ] denotes the first ℓ rows.
     For a w-round protocol for w ≥ 1, let procedurei be the algorithm for the i-th round for i ∈ [w];
 we
 P use procedure to denote the collection of procedurei in all rounds, and T (procedure(. . . )) :=
    i∈[w] T (procedurei (. . . )), where T (procedurei (. . . )) is the runtime for procedurei . Similarly, for
 P i , the input or output of procedurei , we use3 item to denote itin all w rounds. We use |item| :=
 item
    i∈[w] |itemi | where |itemi | is the size of itemi .


4.2    Hardness Assumption
Definition 4.1 (Decisional ring learning with error assumption [65]). Let D, Q, D, χ be parameters
dependent on λ and D being a power of two. Let R = Z[X]/(X D + 1). The ring learning with
error (RLWE) assumption RLWED,Q,D,χ is the following: for any PPT adversary, distinguishing
(a, a · s + e) and (a, b) (with noticeable advantage) is hard, where a ←$ RQ , s ← D, e ← χ and
b ←$ RQ .

4.3    Private Information Retrieval
Private information retrieval (PIR) [26] is a primitive that, given a server holding a database
DB ∈ EN (where E is the space of a data entry, e.g., bit strings), a client can use PIR to retrieve
DB[i] without letting the server know any information about i. It is formally captured as follows.

Definition 4.2 (w-round Private information retrieval (PIR)). A Private Information Retrieval
consists of three PPT procedures:

    • pp := (ppS , ppC ) ← GenParam(1λ , N ) : takes a security parameter λ, a database size N , and
      outputs a public parameter pp containing ppS for the server and a public parameter ppC for
      the client. Note that both ppS , ppC are available to the adversary for security. This distinction
      is only for efficiency reasons, as some public parameters may only be necessary to one of the
      two parties.
   3
     The size is bit size for a general variable, and is the number of items if the variable denotes vector, such as the
databse BB.



                                                          17
                           PIR-SECA       λ
                                  PIR,N (1 )
                            1:   pp = (ppS , ppC ) ← GenParams(1λ , N )
                            2:   (idx0 ∈ [N ], idx1 ∈ [N ], st) ← A(pp, N )
                                      $
                            3:   b←
                                  − {0, 1}
                            4:   qry0 , st0 ← Query(ppC , idxb )
                            5:   for i ∈ [w] :
                            6:        ansi , st ← A(pp, st, qry0 )
                            7:        qryi+1 , sti+1 ← Decodei (pp, ansi , sti )
                                  ′
                            8:   b ← A(st)
                            9:   return b = b′

                         Figure 5: PIR-SEC: security game for PIR privacy.


   • (qry0 , st0 ) ← Query(pp, idx) : takes a public parameter pp, an index idx ∈ [N ] and outputs a
     query qry0 and a state st0 for the first round below.

   • Data retrieval is a w-round protocol between the server and the client for w ≥ 1, and each
     round i ∈ [w] includes the following two procedures:

        – ansi ← Ansi (ppS , qryi , DB) : takes a public parameter (for server) ppS , a query qryi for
          round i, and a database DB ∈ EN (for a data entry space E, e.g., bit strings), and output
          an answer ans.
        – sti+1 , qryi+1 ← Decodei (ppC , ansi , sti ) : takes a public parameter (for client) ppC , an
          ansi , and state sti in round i and outputs a secret state sti+1 and query qryi+1 for the
          next round.

The scheme must satisfy the following properties:

   • (Correctness) For any λ > 0, N = poly(λ), DB ∈ EN where E := {0,1}poly(λ) is the entry space.
     Let ppS , ppC ← GenParam(1λ , N ). For any idx ∈ [N ], let (qry0 , st0 ) ← Query(ppC , idx), and
     for i ∈ [w], ansi ← Ansi (ppS , qryi , DB), and sti+1 , qryi+1 ← Decodei (ppC ,ansi sti ), it holds that
     Pr[DB[idx] ∈ stw ] ≥ 1 − negl(λ).

   • (Privacy) For any λ > 0, N = poly(λ), for any PPT adversary A: It holds that

            Pr[PIR-SECA       λ
                      PIR,N (1 ) = 1] ≤ 1/2 + negl(λ) .

      where PIR-SEC is defined in Fig. 5.

Batch PIR. Batch PIR allows the client to query bN ≤ N indices S := {i1 , . . . , ibN } ⊂ [N ],
instead of a single index i ∈ [N ], and returns DB[i1 ], . . . , DB[ibN ]. Formally, we capture it as
follows.


                                                      18
Definition 4.3 (Batched private information retrieval (batchPIR)). A Batched Private Information
Retrieval consists of three PPT procedures:
   • pp := (ppS , ppC ) ← GenParam(1λ , N ) : takes a security parameter λ, a database size N , and
     outputs a public parameter pp containing ppS for the server and a public parameter ppC for
     the client. Note that both ppS , ppC are available to the adversary for security. This distinction
     is only for efficiency reasons, as some public parameters may only be necessary to one of the
     two parties.

   • (qry, st) ← Query(ppC , idx1 , . . . , idxbN ) : takes a public parameter (for client) ppC , indices
     idx1 , . . . , idxbN ⊂ [N ] and outputs a query qry and a state st.

   • Data retrieval is a w-round protocol between the server and the client for w ≥ 1, and each
     round i ∈ [w] includes the following two procedures:

        – ansi ← Ansi (ppS , qryi , DB) : takes a public parameter (for server) ppS , a query qryi for
          round i, and a database DB ∈ EN (for a data entry space E, e.g., bit strings), and output
          an answer ans. This procedure can be interactive between the server and the client.
        – sti+1 , qryi+1 ← Decodei (ppC , ansi , sti ) : takes a public parameter (for client) ppC , an
          ansi , and state sti in round i and outputs a secret state sti+1 and query qryi+1 for the
          next round.

The scheme must satisfy the following properties:

   • (Correctness) For any λ > 0, N = poly(λ), DB ∈ EN where E := {0,1}poly(λ) is an entry space.
     Let ppS , ppC ← GenParam(1λ , N ). For any S := (idx1 , . . . , idxbN ) ⊂ [N ], let (qry0 , st0 ) ←
     Query(ppC , idx1 , . . . , idxbN ), ansi ← Ansi (ppS , qryi , DB), and sti+1 , qryi+1 ← Decodei (ppC , ansi ,
     sti ), it holds that Pr[(∀i ∈ (idx1 , . . . , idxbN ), DB[i] ∈ stw ] ≥ 1 − negl(λ).

   • (Privacy)

             Pr[BATCHPIR-SECA       λ
                            PIR,N (1 ) = 1] ≤ 1/2 + negl(λ) .

      where BATCHPIR-SEC is defined in Fig. 6.

    It is well known that PIR implies batchPIR [4, 3, 22], with constant overhead, captured formally
in the following lemma, and see [4] for the closed-box compiler:
Lemma 4.4. Let Π be a w-round PIR scheme (Definition 4.2), there exists π ′ that is a w-round
batchPIR scheme (Definition 4.3) satisfying T (π ′ .Query(·, S)) = Õ(T (π ′ .Query(·, ·))) for any S ⊆
[N ], and |π ′ .qry| = Õ(|π.qry|), |π ′ .ans = Õ(|π.ans|).

4.4   Public Key Encryption
Definition 4.5 (Public Key Encryption (PKE)). A PKE scheme consists of four PPT algorithms
(GenParam, KeyGen, Enc, Dec) defined as follows:
   • pp ← GenParam(1λ ): takes a security parameter λ; outputs a public parameter pp.

   • (pk, sk) ← KeyGen(pp): takes the public parameter pp; outputs a key pair (pk, sk).

                                                       19
                         BATCHPIR-SECA       λ
                                     PIR,N (1 )
                         1:   pp = (ppS , ppC ) ← GenParams(1λ , N )
                         2:   (bN ∈ [N ], S0 ∈ [N ]bN , S1 ∈ [N ]bN , st) ← A(pp, N )
                                $
                         3:   b←
                               − {0, 1}
                         4:   qry0 , st0 ← Query(ppC , Sb )
                         5:   for i ∈ [w] :
                         6:     ansi , st ← A(pp, st, qry0 )
                         7:     qryi+1 , sti+1 ← Decodei (pp, ansi , sti )
                         8:   b′ ← A(st)
                         9:   return b = b′


                Figure 6: BATCHPIR-SEC: security game for batch PIR privacy.


   • ct ← Enc(pp, pk, m): takes the public parameter pp and the public key pk, generates the
     ciphertext c for the message m; outputs ct.

   • m ← Dec(pp, sk, ct): takes the public parameter pp, decrypts the ciphertext ct into a plaintext
     message m based on the secret key sk; outputs the message m.

The scheme must satisfy the following properties:

   • (Correctness) For any λ > 0, let pp ← GenParam(1λ ), let (pk,sk) ← KeyGen(pp) and for
     any message m, let ct ← Enc(pp, pk, m) and m′ ← Dec(pp, sk,ct). It holds that if pp ̸= ⊥,
     Pr[m = m′ ] ≥ 1 − negl(λ).

   • (IND-CPA Security) For any PPT algorithm A = (A1 , A2 ): let pp ← GenParam(1λ ), (pk,sk) ←
     KeyGen(pp); A1 chooses two messages and remembers state: (m0 , m1 , st) ← A1 (pp, pk); sam-
     ple b ←$ {0,1} and ct ← Enc(pp,pk,mb ); let b′ ← A2 (st, ct); it holds that: Pr[b = b′ ] ≤
     1/2 + negl(λ).

Then, we define two additional optional properties:

   • (Key privacy [11]) A PKE scheme is key-private or has key-privacy property if: For any PPT
     algorithm A = (A1 , A2 ): let pp ← GenParam(1λ ), and (pk0 ,sk0 ) ← KeyGen(pp), (pk1 ,sk1 ) ←
     KeyGen(pp); A1 chooses a message and remembers its state: (m, st) ← A1 (pp, pk0 , pk1 );
     then sample b ←$ {0,1} and let ct ← Enc(pp,pkb ,m); let b′ ← A2 (st, ct); it holds that:
     Pr[b = b′ ] ≤ 1/2 + negl(λ).

   • (Wrong-key Decryption [58]) A PKE scheme has the wrong-key-decryption property if: For
     a PKE scheme with plaintext space P, let pp ← GenParam(1λ ), (pk,sk) ← KeyGen(pp),
     (pk′ ,sk) ← KeyGen(pp), for any m ∈ P, let ct ← Enc(pp, pk, m), m′ ← Dec(pp, sk′ , m), it holds
     that Pr[m′ = m] ≤ 1/|P| + negl(λ).

The RLWE PKE scheme. Now, we recall the RLWE PKE scheme introduced in [65] (with the
modifications used in [60]).


                                                      20
Definition 4.6 (RLWE PKE). RLWEenc has the following algorithms:

   • pp = (n, ℓ, q, σ, r, D) ← RLWEenc.GenParam(1λ , ℓ, q, σ, ϵn ) : Choose a secret key dimension n (ring
     dimension, with ring Z[X]/(X n + 1)) and a distribution D where the distribution is sampling
     a random vector of form {−1, 0,1}n with a fixed Hamming weight h, such that RLWEn,q,D,σ
     holds. Set ciphertext modulus q, number of bits in plaintext ℓ ≤ n, and standard deviation σ
     for Gaussian distribution for ciphertext noise generation. Additionally, set a minimum integer
                              r
     r such that erf( √2·√2h+1·σ  ) ≤ ϵn /ℓ.

   • (sk, pk) ← RLWEenc.KeyGen(pp) : Draw a secret key s ← D. Sample α ←$ Rq and noise
     x ← χσ ∈ R, and compute pk = (α, αs + x) ∈ Rq × Rq , sk ← s.

          (a, ⃗b) ← RLWEenc.Enc(pp, pk, ⃗
   • ct = P                              m) : To encrypt a vector ⃗ m ∈ Zℓ2 , define the ring element
                  q
     t ← i∈[ℓ] 2 · ⃗m[i]X i ∈ Rq . Draw a ring element y ← D ∈ Rq and noises x′ , x′′ ← χσ . Let
     b ← pk[1] · y + t + x′′ =      bi X i . The ciphertext is the pair (a, ⃗b) = (α · y + x′ , (bi )i∈[ℓ] ) ∈
                               P
                                   i∈[n]
      Rq × Zℓq .

     m ← RLWEenc.Dec(pp, sk, ct = (a,⃗b)) : Let a′ ← a · sk := i∈[n] a′i X i−1 , d⃗ = ⃗b − (a′i )i∈[ℓ] ,
   • ⃗
                                                              P

     m = (| ⃗
     ⃗     d| > r) ∈ Zℓ .2

    RLWEenc satisfies correctness, IND-CPA Security, key-privacy, and wrong-key-decryption (Sec-
tion 4.4), guaranteed by the RLWE assumption (Section 4.2) [65].

4.5   Additively Homomorphic Encryption
Additively homomorphic encryption (AHE) further allows the ciphertexts to perform linear opera-
tions. In this work, we use Brakerski/Fan-Vercauteren (BFV) homomorphic encryption scheme [21,
33] as our AHE, which is technically fully homomorphic encryption (allowing arbitrary computation
over ciphertexts [81, 37]), but we only use its additive homomorphism.
    BFV scheme consists of the following PPT algorithms: GenParam(1λ ), KeyGen(ppBFV ),Enc(
ppBFV ,pk, m), Dec(ppBFV , sk, c) as normal PKE schemes. BFV is unconditionally correct. Under
the RLWE hardness assumption (Section 4.2), it also fulfills the standard definitions of semantic
security (IND-CPA) for FHE schemes.
    Given a polynomial from the cyclotomic ring Rt = Zt [X]/(X D + 1) (where D is a power-of-two,
t ≡ 1 mod 2D), the BFV scheme encrypts it into a ciphertext consisting of two polynomials, each
of which in a larger cyclotomic ring RQ = ZQ [X]/(X D + 1) for some Q > t. Here, t, Q, and D
are called the plaintext modulus, the ciphertext modulus, and the ring dimension, respectively.
    Alternatively, one can also encode a plaintext in ZDt into a polynomial in Rt and then encrypt
(see Appendix B for details). In this case, each Zt element is encoded into a “slot” of the ring
element, which contains D slots in total. This ability to evaluate D of Zt elements simultaneously
is the so-called Single-Instruction-Multiple-Data (SIMD) property of BFV.
Linear operations. While BFV is indeed an FHE scheme, as mentioned, we only use the linear
operations. Specifically, we use the following operations:

   • (Addition) For any two BFV ciphertexts ct1 , ct2 , let ct ← ct1 +ct2 , it holds that BFV.Dec(ct) =
     BFV.Dec(ct1 ) + BFV.Dec(ct2 ).


                                                     21
        • (Plaintext Multiplication) For any BFV ciphertext ct and plaintext m ∈ Rt , let ct′ ← m × ct,
          it holds that BFV.Dec(ct′ ) = m × BFV.Dec(ct).
                                                                                  ×D
        • (Matrix Multiplication) For any BFV ciphertext ct and matrix M ∈ ZM   t    for any M ≤ D,
                ′                                   ′
          let ct ← M × ct, it holds that BFV.Dec(ct ) = M × BFV.Dec(ct), where the multiplication is
          standard matrix-vector multiplication over Zt for BFV.Dec decrypting into ZD
                                                                                     t instead of Rt .


5        The Relationship Between OMR and PIR
As discussed in Section 2.1, both OMR and PIR enable a recipient to retrieve database records
without revealing the access pattern. However, the key distinction is that OMR achieves this using
encrypted, random-looking clues, whereas PIR typically relies on plaintext indices or keywords.
This similarity and difference hint that OMR provides a stronger functionality than PIR. This
section formalizes this intuition.

5.1        OMR Implies PIR
This section presents a closed-box reduction from PIR to any OMR construction with strong
detection-key-unlinkability (Definition 3.5). Furthermore, this reduction has almost no efficiency
overhead: The online runtime of the PIR server matches that of the OMR detector when the
payload is the PIR database. Moreover, the PIR online communication is the detection key size
plus the digest size, which is also the normal online communication of the OMR construction.4

Theorem 5.1. Let OMR be a w-round OMR scheme (Definition 3.1), which is also strong detection-
key-unlinkable (Definition 3.5). Then, there exists a w-round PIR scheme PIR (Definition 4.2) with
the following efficiency guarantee (see Section 4.1 for notations):

        • T (PIR.Ans(ppSPIR , qry, DB)) = T (OMR.Retrieve(ppOMR , BB, qry, 1, aux)), where ppSPIR , qry, BB, ppOMR
          are generated as in the proof below, and DB ∈ EN is the PIR database, satisfying |BB.x| ≤
          2|DB| for log(|E|) ≥ log(N ).

        • T (PIR.Decode(ppC                                                              C
                          PIR , ans, st)) = T (OMR.Decode(ppOMR , ans, sk,stR)), where ppPIR , ans, st, ppOMR , sk
          are generated as in the proof below.

        • |PIR.qry| = |OMR.pkdet | + |OMR.aux|.

        • |PIR.ans| = |OMR.dig|.

Proof. Given OMR, we construct the PIR scheme PIR as follows, where i ∈ [w] is the algorithm in
round i:

        • PIR.GenParam(1λ , N ):

             – ppOMR ← OMR.GenParam(1λ , negl(λ), negl(λ));
             – Sample a random seed s;
    4
    Technically, OMR recipients could submit a detection key offline, and this key can be reused for different bulletin
boards.




                                                          22
         – For j ∈ [N ], (skcluej , pkcluej ) ← OMR.GenClueKey(pp; G(s, j)), cj ← OMR.GenClue(ppOMR , pkcluej ),
           where G is a PRG which takes a seed s and an index j and outputs a randomness de-
           terministically;
         – Return ppPIR = (ppSPIR := (ppOMR , s, {cj }j∈[N ] ), ppC
                                                                  PIR := (ppOMR , s)).

   • PIR.Query(ppC
                 PIR , idx) :

         – skclueidx , pkclueidx ← OMR.GenClueKey(ppOMR ; G(s, idx));
         – skdet , pkdet ← OMR.GenDetKey(ppOMR , skclueidx ) (generated with a fresh randomness);
         – Return qry0 := pkdet , st0 := sk := (skclue , skdet ).

   • PIR.Ansi (ppSPIR , qryi , DB) :

         – Let auxi−1 ← ⊥ if i = 0 and auxi−1 ← qryi otherwise;
         – Let BB := {cj , DB[j]||j}j∈[N ] ;
         – stRi , auxi ← OMR.Retrieve(ppOMR , BB, qry0 , k̄ = 1, auxi−1 );
         – Return PIR.sti+1 = stRi , qryi+1 = auxi .

   • PIR.Decodei (ppC
                    PIR , ans, sti ) :

         – stRi+1 , auxi+1 ← OMR.Decodei (ppOMR , ans, sk := (skcluej , skdet ));
         – Return sti+1 := stRi+1 , qryi+1 = auxi+1 .

   Now, we prove the properties of PIR.
Correctness: By the OMR completeness, since there is exactly one message generated using pkcluei
and all the messages are unique (since each database entry is appended by the unique index i), it
holds that DB[idx]||idx ∈ PL (except for negligible probability). Therefore, DB[idx] ∈ stw as required
by PIR (except for negligible probability).
Privacy: We prove privacy via a series of hybrids, corresponding to the protocols integrated in the
security game:

   • hyb0 : our PIR above.

   • hyb1 : instead of storing the seed s in ppPIR , stores all the G(s, idx) for idx ∈ [N ].

   • hyb2 : skcluei , pkcluei ’s are generated via true randomness instead of G(s, i).

It is easy to see that privacy-wise, hyb0 and hyb1 are trivially identical. Then, hyb1 and hyb2 have
the same privacy guarantee by the security of the PRG G and seed s being correctly sampled.
Thus, it remains to show that hyb2 is indeed a secure PIR construction.
    We prove the privacy guarantee of hyb2 via a reduction. Suppose there exists an adversary A
that breaks PIR for some N ≥ 2, we can build A′ to break the strong-detection-key-unlinkability
as follows.
    Denote the input of A′ as (ppOMR , r0 , r1 , pkdetb , k̄ = 1), where b ∈ {0,1} is hidden from A′ .
Generate ppPIR honestly, where each clue key pair is generated using randomness ri′ for i ∈ [N ].
Randomly sample two indices idx′0 , idx′1 ∈ [N ] and replace ridx  ′
                                                                     ′ with rj for j ∈ {0,1}. Obtain
                                                                        j
idx0 , idx1 from A. Return a random bit b′ directly if (idx0 , idx1 ) do not match (idx′0 , idx′1 ). Otherwise,

                                                      23
answer A by using pkdetb by playing the OMR-SDKU game, and return whatever A returns. This
is equivalent to playing the PIR-SEC game with A using idxb , so the advantage of winning the
OMR-SDKU game is at least 1/N 2 times the advantage of A in winning the PIR-SEC game.
Efficiency: Lastly, we discuss the efficiency, which is straightforward:

   • T (PIR.Ans(ppSPIR , qry, DB)) = T (OMR.Retrieve(ppOMR , BB, qry, 1, aux)) (plus the runtime to pad DB
     entries with their indices, but, for simplicity, we view that as 0 since it can be done when
     passing the padded DB to OMR.Retrieve).

   • T (PIR.Decode(ppCPIR , ans, st)) = T (OMR.Decode(ppOMR , ans, sk, stR)) since PIR.Decode only calls OMR.Decode
     without doing anything else.

   • |PIR.qry| = |OMR.pkdet | by our construction above.

   • |PIR.ans| = |OMR.dig| by our construction above.



An alternative reduction. There is an alternative approach to perform the reduction: instead
of generating the clues ci ’s during ppPIR generation, the server generates them during the PIR.Ans
procedure using the seed s. The rest of the reduction remains exactly the same. The change of
efficiency is that now T (PIR.Ans) = T (OMR.Retrieve) + N · (T (OMR.KeyGen) + T (OMR.GenClue)),
while |ppS .PIR| is reduced from O(N ) to O(1). We believe that our reduction in the current proof is
more efficient since there is essentially no online runtime loss, which is one of the two main efficiency
metrics PIR literature try to improve upon (with the other one being online communication) [4,
3, 68]. On the other hand, since ppSPIR is only held by the server, who holds a database of size N
already, storing ppSPIR does not seem to be a large efficiency loss.
BatchPIR. While our proof above does not directly show that OMR implies batchPIR, by
Lemma 4.4, OMR can be used to build batchPIR directly as well, with constant overhead. However,
how to show OMR implies batchPIR (with less overhead) in a more direct way is an interesting
open problem.
Larger ϵn . While an OMR construction should support any ϵn , ϵp ∈ (0, 1), one could weaken the
OMR definition to only allow certain range of ϵp , ϵn (e.g., only non-negligible in λ). PIR can still be
constructed (with slightly larger overhead). In more detail, the server can simply call Retrieve for
w = logϵn (negl(λ)) times using independently generated clues. In this case, each call has a failure
probability of ϵn and all of them fail with probability ϵwn = negl(λ) times. This achieves PIR with
runtime efficiency T (PIR.Ans) = w · T (OMR.Retrieve), T (PIR.Decode) = w · T (OMR.Decode), and
|PIR.ans| = w · |OMR.dig|, while |PIR.Query| remains unchanged. Asymptotically, this adds little
overhead (at most λ). Concretely, for OMR, a larger ϵn makes the primitive moot and therefore
even if ϵn is not negligible, it should be small enough and thereby w being a very small constant.
    Note that all the OMR constructions indeed support negl(λ) of ϵn ,ϵp as requried by the definition
itself. We only include this discussion for completeness.
[P3] The 1/N 2 loss. As one may keenly observe, the reduction above incurs a security loss
of 1/N 2 . Under the current security definition, it appears difficult to eliminate this loss. Indeed,
one could weaken the security notion by, for example, requiring the adversary to commit to its
choice of indices before seeing the public parameters, which removes the 1/N 2 loss. However, this
modification fails to capture real-world scenarios in which public parameters are shared in advance.

                                                     24
This limitation also explains why we are unable to directly reduce
                                                                  OMR to batch PIR: For k indices,
                                                               N
the natural extension of the above reduction incurs a loss of k , which can be super-polynomial in
the security parameter. Removing such a loss to achieve a tighter reduction is an interesting open
question.

5.2      OMR Implies Key-private PKE
This section then shows that OMR implies key-private PKE (with wrong-key-decryption). As
mentioned, while this directly shows OMR is a strictly harder primitive than PIR, this result means
that if PIR implies OMR (since single-server PIR implies PKE [31, 38]), additively homomorphic
symmetric key encryption (AHSKE) implies key-private PKE (see Remark C.3 for a more detailed
discussion).5
    In fact, this section takes a step further and shows that (non-compact) OMR (Definition 3.1)
is equivalent to PKE with key-privacy and wrong-key-decryption property (Definition 4.5).

Theorem 5.2. There exists an OMR construction (Definition 3.1), if and only if there exists a
PKE construction that has key-privacy and wrong-key-decryption property (Definition 4.5) with
message space {0,1}.

Proof. We first show that given OMR, we can construct a PKE scheme PKE as follows (for simplicity,
we assume OMR is one-round and drop the subscript, but the construction below trivially extends
to multiple rounds, since all the rounds can be simulated by the recipient holding the secret key):

      • PKE.GenParam(1λ ):

           – ppOMR ← OMR.GenParam(1λ , negl(λ), negl(λ))
           – Return ppPKE := ppOMR

      • PKE.KeyGen(ppPKE ) :

           – For i ∈ {0,1}: skcluei , pkcluei ← GenClueKey(ppOMR )
           – For i ∈ {0,1}: skdeti , pkdeti ← GenDetKey(ppOMR , skclue )
           – Return sk := (skclue0 , skdet0 , pkdet0 , skclue1 , skdet1 , pkdet1 ), pk := (pkclue0 , pkclue1 )

      • PKE.Enc(ppPKE , pk, m ∈ {0,1}) :

           – r ←$ {0,1}λ
           – c ← GenClue(ppOMR , pkclueb )
           – Return ct := (c, r)

      • PKE.Dec(ppPKE , sk, ct) :

           – dig ← OMR.Retrieve(ppOMR , pkdet0 , {ct})
           – PL0 ← OMR.Decode(ppOMR , ans, (skclue0 , skdet0 ))
           – dig ← OMR.Retrieve(ppOMR , pkdet1 , {ct})
  5
    It is also not known whether AHSKE implies PKE with wrong-key-decryption, but this property is less standard
and quite new.


                                                            25
        – PL1 ← OMR.Decode(ppOMR , ans, (skclue1 , skdet1 ))
        – If r ∈ PL0 , return 0. If r ∈ PL1 , return 1. Otherwise, return a random bit.

   Now, we prove the properties of PKE.

   • Correctness: By the completeness of OMR, if m = 0, r ∈ PL0 with probability ≥ 1 − negl(λ).
     By the soundness of OMR, if m = 1, r ̸∈ PL0 with probability ≥ 1 − negl(λ). However, again
     by completeness, r ∈ PL1 with probability ≥ 1 − negl(λ). Thus, the correctness of PKE holds.

   • CPA-security: If there exists an adversary A that breaks the CPA security of PKE, it trivially
     distinguishes the clue generated using pkclue0 and the clue generated using pkclue1 , as that is
     the only difference for ct. Thus, PKE is CPA-secure.

   • Key-privacy: Let pk = (pkclue0 , pkclue1 ) and pk′ = (pk′clue0 , pk′clue1 ) be two honestly generated
     PKE public keys. If there exists an adversary A that breaks the key privacy of PKE, it means
     that this A distinguishes the clue generated using pkclueb and the clue generated using pk′clueb
     for some b ∈ {0,1}, which the privacy guarantee of OMR. Thus, PKE is key-private.

   • Wrong-key-dectyption: By the soundness of OMR, since the clue is generated via another
     (honestly generated) public key, both Retrieve using pkdet0 , pkdet1 would not be able to suc-
     cessfully include r in PLi for i ∈ [2] (except for negligible probability). Thus, the decryption
     procedure returns a random value. This satisfies the definition of wrong-key-decryption.

   Then, we show the other direction: Given a PKE scheme PKE with key-privacy and wrong-key-
decryption property, we can construct a (non-compact) OMR scheme OMR as follows:

   • OMR.GenParam(1λ , ϵn , ϵp ):

        – ppPKE ← PKE.GenParam(1λ )
        – ℓ ← ⌈− log(ϵp )⌉
        – Return ppOMR := (ppPKE , ℓ)

   • OMR.GenClueKey(ppOMR ) :

        – (pk, sk) ← PKE.KeyGen(pp.PKE)
        – Return skclue = sk, pkclue = pk

   • OMR.GenDetKey(ppOMR , skclue ) :

        – Return skdet = skclue , pkdet = ⊥

   • OMR.GenClue(ppPKE , pkclue ) :

        – cti ← PKE.Enc(ppPKE , 0) for i ∈ [ℓ]
        – Return c = {cti }i∈[ℓ]

   • OMR.Retrieve(ppOMR , pkdet , BB, k̄) :

        – Return dig = BB


                                                   26
    • OMR.Decode(ppOMR , sk, dig) :

         – For all i ∈ [N ]
         – If PKE.Dec(ppP KE, sk, BB[i].c[j]) = 0 for all j ∈ [ℓ], include BB[i].x ∈ PL
         – Return PL

    Now, we prove the properties of OMR.

    • Completeness: By correctness of PKE, if the clue is encrypted under pkclue , the corresponding
      skclue decrypts it to 0ℓ . Thus, the corresponding payload is included in PL.

    • Soundness: By wrong-key-decryption of PKE, if the clue is encrypted under a different honestly
      genereated clue key pk′clue , decryption under skclue (corresponding to pkclue ) result in 0ℓ with
      1/2ℓ ≤ ϵp probability.

    • Privacy: Privacy is guaranteed by the key-privacy of PKE.

As a side note, this OMR is in fact trivially strongly-detection-key-unlinkable, simply because
pkdet = ⊥.

Larger ϵn , ϵp . Similar to the previous reduction from PIR to OMR, the reduction does not
directly work if ϵn or ϵp cannot be negl(λ) (which again is only a weaker verion of OMR that could
potentially be defined by future works and we discuss this for completeness only). Now we have
ϵn = p and ϵp = p′ such that |(1 − p) − p′ | = nonnegl(λ) (note that if 1 − p = p′ means that pertinent
messages and impertinent messages are indistinguishable, making the OMR construction moot).
WLOG, assume p < 1 − p′ . Then, we can simply repeat the encryption process above w times.
Then, it means that if the encryption of 0, Retrieve using pkdet0 contains the dummy string r for
w · (1 − p) trials (in expectation). On the other hand, if the encryption is 1, Retrieve using pkdet1
contains the dummy string r for w · p′ trials (in expectation). There is a non-negligible gap between
(1 − p) and p′ , which means that as long as w = poly(λ) is large enough, we are able to tell whether
the encryption is 0 or 1. However, again, this is only to show theoretical feasibility.
Compactness. Note that this proof shows the equivalence of OMR and key-private PKE with
wrong-key-decryptin property, but only for non-compact OMR (i.e., |dig| = Ω(N ), and see Ap-
pendix A for formal compactness definition). For a compact OMR, it is not directly implied by
such a PKE scheme anymore.


6    The Main OMR Construction
This section introduces our main construction of oblivious message retrieval: UnifOMR. As men-
tioned in Section 2.2, all existing works on single-server OMR rely on (leveled) fully homomorphic
encryption to achieve asymptotic compactness. However, this largely limits the efficiency of the
resulting construction: It takes > 20 minutes to process 219 messages. If, instead, we focus only on
“concrete compactness” (i.e., digest size being concretely small but not asymptotically sublinear in
database size), the detector runtime can be greatly improved by avoiding the need for FHE.




                                                  27
6.1      Overview of Retrieval based on Additively Homomorphic Encryption
This section starts with the basic idea of UnifOMR. In the following sections, we will discuss how
to further optimize the scheme and present the full construction.
Clue key and clue generation. At the beginning, the recipients need to generate the clue keys.
Similar to prior single-server OMR works [60, 51, 57], UnifOMR uses the PKE scheme RLWEenc
(Definition 4.6) for clue generation.
    Each recipient generates an RLWEenc key pair and uses them as the clue key pair (skclue :=
RLWEenc.sk, pkclue := RLWEenc.pk). Then, to send a message to the recipient, the sender first
fetches the recipient’s public key pkclue , and generates an RLWEenc ciphertext c := (a, ⃗b) ←
RLWEenc.Enc(ppRLWEenc , pkclue , 0ℓ ) ∈ Rt × Zℓt as the clue, which encrypts a vector of ℓ zeros. ℓ
is some parameter adjusted according to ϵp to-be-discussed later, and t is the plaintext modulus
for the BFV scheme.6
 Pertinent indices detection via partial decryption. To help the recipient identify which
 messages are pertinent, the detector could perform a full homomorphic decryption of the clue
 ciphertext c, which is the method taken by all prior single-server OMR works. However, this is
 very inefficient since the decryption requires the homomorphic evaluation of the entire decryption
 circuit, which is deep and expensive.
      Recall that for RLWEenc ciphertexts, the first step of decryption is a simple linear operation:
⃗b − RingToVec(ask). To evaluate RingToVec(ask), a natural way is to view sk as a vector in ZN ,
                                                                                                    t
 i.e., ⃗s := RingToVec(sk) ∈ Znt (see Section 4.1 for notations), and then view a = i∈[n] ai X i as a
                                                                                       P
                                                               
                             a0 −an−1 −an−2 . . . −a1
                           a1
                                    a0     −an−1 . . . −a2    
 circulant matrix: A := 
                           a2       a  1    −a   0  . . . −a 3  ∈ Ztn×n . Thus, RingToVec(ask) = A⃗s.
                                                                
                           ..        ..       ..    ..     .. 
                           .          .        .        .   . 
                             an−1 an−2        an−3 . . . a0
To obtain the first ℓ results, compute A[: ℓ] × ⃗s (which is sufficient to compute ⃗b − A⃗s, since ⃗b only
has ℓ elements).
    To further optimize the matrix P multiplication A · ⃗s, instead of directly encrypting ⃗s, UnifOMR
encodes each coefficient of sk := i∈[n] ski X i as a constant polynomial: si (X) := ski = ⃗s[i], which
is then encrypted under BFV: ctsi ← BFV.Enc(ppBFV , pkBFV , si (X)).
                                                                 ⃗             ℓ
    Hence, to (partially) decrypt the first bit of a clue P (a, b) ∈ Rt × Zt (encrypting ℓ bits), the
detector generates A as above and computes b[0] − i∈[n] A[0][i] × ctsi . By leveraging the SIMD
property of BFV (Section 4.5), D independent clues can be processed at the same time, where D
is the ring dimension: Encode A1 [0][i], . . . , AD [0][i] for D different clues into the D “slots” of a
plaintext ring element and then perform the multiplication. This procedure is performed for all
A[j], j ∈ [ℓ] to (partially) decrypt for all ℓ bits.
    To complete the RLWEenc decryption, a range check is performed afterwards, which results in
a deep and expensive homomorphic circuit. Fortunately, this step can be done by the recipients
in plaintext instead of being computed by the detector homomorphically. Thus, the detector only
needs to perform the light-weight partial decryption. More formally, for a message, the detector
performs the partial decryption via BFV, which results in (a BFV encryption of) ⃗b[j] − ask for
j ∈ [ℓ]. The recipient (decrypts the BFV ciphertext and) checks whether the resulting value
  6
      This is achieved by setting q = t for RLWEenc ciphertext modulus q.



                                                         28
of ⃗b[j] − ask ∈ [−r, r], for r being the error bound parameter of RLWEenc (see Definition 4.6),
satisfying ((2r + 1)/t)ℓ < ϵp for false positive rate ϵp . If so, this bit is decrypted to 0, and 1
otherwise.
     If the final result of the i-th message is 0ℓ , then the i-th message is pertinent. Otherwise, by
RLWE, if ct = (a, ⃗b) ∈ Rt × Zℓt is encrypted under sk′ , computing ⃗b − ask results in a vector in Zℓt
computationally indistinguishable from a uniform random vector, which is then decrypted into 0ℓ
with probability ϵp .
Savings from the strawman solution. One may wonder about the difference between this
solution and the strawman solution, where all the clue ciphertexts are directly sent back to the
recipient, and let the recipient perform the full decryption directly. To summarize, there are three
major advantages for our construction:

       • The communication cost for the strawman solution is |c| per message, which can concretely
         be hundreds of bytes or even kilobytes as in [58, 59, 60, 51] (and UnifOMR). In contrast,
         UnifOMR only requires ℓ of ZQ elements per message (where Q is the ciphertext modulus of
         BFV, being at most a few bytes, to support the linear operations needed).

       • The recipient computation cost for the strawman solution is one ciphertext decryption per
         message. In contrast, UnifOMR only requires one BFV decryption per D messages, for ring
         dimension D.

       • Lastly, UnifOMR allows additional optimizations to further reduce the communication cost,
         which will be detailed later.

    The above arguments directly apply if the clue generation uses other widely used PKE schemes
like RSA [82] or Discrete-Log-based solution (e.g., Diffie-Hellman Key Exchange [32] plus a sym-
metric key ciphertext, which acts as a PKE). We show the concrete advantage in Section 7.
BatchPIR for retrieval. After obtaining the indices of the pertinent messages, the recipients
can use the batchPIR protocol (Definition 4.3) to retrieve the pertinent messages. This process
is straightforward since batchPIR is used as a closed-box (which is also discussed or used in prior
works [58, 47]), so we omit the details and include the formal description in Algorithm 1. After the
recipient obtains the answer from batchPIR, the OMR retrieval procedure is completed.7

6.2      Full Construction with Reduced Communication
This section discusses how to further optimize the communication cost of the scheme.
Merging the errors. Notice that both RLWEenc and BFV generate RLWE ciphertexts that
contain errors. Thus, if the two errors are merged, the communication cost can be further reduced
(via modulus switching to be discussed later). However, with the naive realization of the partial
decryption above, the errors of RLWEenc are encoded in slots while the errors of BFV are encoded
in coefficients. With more syntactic rigor, the resulting BFV ciphertext ct := (a, b) ∈ R2Q satisfies
b − askBFV = eBFV + Qt · y(X), where y(X) encodes vector RingToVec(eRLWEenc ) satisfying that
   7
    For clarity: UnifOMR uses batchPIR as a black box. Separately, we also prove that such (batch)PIR is implied by
(SDKU) OMR. These two results are independent. In particular, the PIR used in the UnifOMR construction would
not be, cyclically, the one given by the lower bound’s reduction to UnifOMR.



                                                        29
Algorithm 1 UnifOMR: Practical Oblivious Message Retrieval
 1: procedure UnifOMR.GenParam(1λ , ϵp , ϵn )
 2:     Choose ppBFV = (D, t, Q, Dsk , Q′ ) such that the error accumulation before modulus switching
    is smaller than Q/Q′ (except for negligible probability) and D ≥ n below; and choose ℓ, q = t, σ
    such that given modulus switching error (dependent on Dsk ) eModSW , let r′ ← Q′ ·r/t+eModSW +
                                ′     ′   ′
    ⌈Q′ /t⌉, it holds that ( 2⌈r ·t/Qt ⌉+Q /t )ℓ ≤ ϵp
 3:     ppPVW = (n, ℓ, q, σ, r, D) ← RLWEenc.GenParam(1λ , ℓ, q, σ, ϵn )
 4:     return pp = (ppBFV , ppRLWEenc , ϵp , ϵn )
 5: procedure UnifOMR.KeyGen(pp)
 6:    (skRLWEenc , pkRLWEenc ) ← RLWEenc.KeyGen(ppRLWEenc )                                       ▷ Clue key
 7:    (skBFV , pkBFV ) ← BFV.KeyGen(ppBFV )                                                 ▷ Detection key
 8:     ctsw ← BFV.Enc(pkBFV , skRLWEenc [w]) for w ∈ [n]                                    ▷ Detection key
 9:    return (sk = (skBFV ), pk = (pkclue = pkRLWEenc , pkdet = (pkBFV , cts0 , . . . , ctsn−1 )))
10: procedure UnifOMR.GenClue(pp, pkclue , x)
11:    ⃗b ← (0, . . . , 0) ∈ Zℓ
                              2
12:     c ← RLWEenc.Enc(pkclue , ⃗b)
13:      return c                                                                            ▷ c ∈ Rq × Zℓq
14: procedure UnifOMR.Retrieve0 (pp, BB = (xi , ci )l∈[N ] , pkdet , k̄, aux0 = ⊥)
15:    for l ∈ [0, ⌈N/D⌉ − 1] do
16:        With c1+l·D , . . . cD+l·D where ci = (ai , ⃗bi ) ∈ Rq × Zℓq , generate Ai [: ℓ] per A defined in
    Section 6.2.
           Generate bj := i∈[D] ⃗bi [j] · X i
                              P
17:
           Generate a′w := i∈[D] A[0][i] · X i
                               P
18:
           ctl,j ← bj − w∈[n] a′w × ctsw
                       P
19:

20:    return dig0 = (ctl,j )l∈[N/D],j∈[ℓ]
21: procedure Decode0 (pp, dig, skdet , stR0 = ⊥)
22:     Decrypt ctl,j := (bl,j , al,j ) to space RQ′ (i.e., bl,j − al,j skBFV ∈ RQ′ )
23:     Let mi,1 , . . . , mi,ℓ ∈ Zℓt denote the decrypted result for message i ∈ [N ]. Check if they are
    all in range [−r′ · Q′ /t, r′ · Q′ /t].
24:     If all the ℓ Zt elements are in [−r, r], add i to set S.
25:     ppPIR ← batchPIR.GenParam(1λ , N ) shared with the detector.
26:      ▷ Note that for batchPIR parameter generation, any parameters independent of N can be
    generated beforehand instead of generated here.
27:     If |S| ≤ k̄, append dummy values to S until |S| = k̄. If |S| > k̄, sample a random set S s.t.
    |S| = k̄.
28:     (qry, st) ← batchPIR.Query(ppPIR , S) ▷ We assume batchPIR is one-round and thereby omit
    the subscript for Query and Decode
29:     return aux1 = qry, stR1 = st
30: procedure UnifOMR.Retrieve1 (pp, BB = (xi , ci )l∈[N ] , pkdet , k̄, aux1 = qry)
31:     return digi := ans ← batchPIR.Ans(ppPIR , qry, DB = (xi )i∈[N ] )
32: procedure UnifOMR.Decode1 (pp, dig1 , sk, st1 )
33:    ·, st1 ← PIR.Decode(ppPIR , ans, st0 )
34:    return aux2 = ⊥, stR2 = st1

                                                    30
eRLWEenc [i] is small if the i-th message is pertinent, and random over Zt otherwise. The goal is to
obtain ct′ := (a′ , b′ ) ∈ R2Q such that b′ − a′ skBFV = e′BFV + Qt · eRLWEenc directly.
    One potential solution is to use the SlotToCoeff procedure (Appendix B) to homomorphically
transform y(X) into eRLWEenc . This procedure requires a matrix multiplication, which can be
merged with the matrix multiplication for partial decryption without any extra cost.
    However, instead of taking this approach (which is potentially more general as discussed in
Remark 6.3), we adopt a conceptually simpler idea. Observe that ctsi encrypts a constant poly-
nomial. Multiplying a constant polynomial by a regular ring element is equivalent to multiplying
a scalar by a vector. Thus, instead of encoding A[j][i] into slots, the detector directly encodes
them intoP   the coefficients. For simplicity, assume  P ℓ = 1 (i.e., only 1-bit to-be-decrypted). Let
pi (X) := j∈[D] Aj [0][i]X j , and compute ct′ ← i∈[n] pi (x) · ctsi . The result encrypts a polyno-
mial whose j-th coefficient encodes Aj [0] × ⃗s. After obtaining ct′ , the remaining task is to reduce
the size of the ciphertext. This can be done by modulus switching ModSW: ct′′ ← ⌊Q′ /Q · ct′ ⌉
where Q′ ≪ Q is another ciphertext modulus.
    After ModSW, the resulting ciphertext ct′′ := (a′′ , b′′ ) ∈ R2Q′ satisfies b′′ − a′′ skBFV = e′′ModSW +
Q′    ′′   Q′   ′                ′
Q · eBFV + t · eRLWEenc , where eRLWEenc [i] is small if the i-th message is pertinent, and random over
Zt if impertinent.
    For example, one could set t = Q′ .8 Then, by correctness of BFV, e′′BFV ≪ t/Q = Q′ /Q, thus
approaches 0. The rest of the error is e′′ModSW + e′RLWEenc : we have e′′ModSW ≤ hBFV /2, where hBFV is
the hamming weight of the BFV secret key (assuming ternary or binary secret key). On the other
hand, e′′RLWEenc = Θ(hRLWEenc ) (where hRLWEenc is the hamming weight of the RLWEenc secret
key), being the error from public key encryption of RLWEenc. Thus, assuming hBFV = O(hRLWEenc )
(achievable since both can be set as linear in the security parameter λ), the resulting error remains
O(hRLWEenc ), the same as |eRLWEenc |, while the ciphertext size is reduced by a factor of log(Q/t),
which is significant in practice.
   This procedure trivially extends to ℓ > 1. And this concludes our UnifOMR construction,
formalized in Algorithm 1.

Theorem 6.1. UnifOMR in Algorithm 1 is an OMR construction (Definition 3.1) for any λ >
0, 0 < ϵp , ϵn < 1, assuming the hardness of RLWE, the correctness of BFV and batchPIR (being a
one-round batch PIR). Additionally, UnifOMR is strong detection-key-unlinkable (Definition 3.5).

Proof.      • (Completeness) In line 19, the scheme obtains ciphertexts ctl,j for l ∈ [⌈N/D⌉], j ∈ [ℓ].
      Let ct = (a, b) := ct0,0 (which applies to other l, j as well).        By construction, we have
      b − askBFV = eBFV (X) + eRLWEenc (X)) where eRLWEenc (X) = i eRLWEenc,i [0] · X i for eRLWEenc,i
                                                                      P
      denoting the error for clue i under sk. If the i-th coefficient corresponds to a pertinent
      message, eRLWEenc [i] ≤ r (except for ϵn probability as guaranteed by line 3). Otherwise,
      eRLWEenc is uniform over Zt . Then, after modulus switching, the resulting ct′ := (a′ , b′ ) ∈ RQ′
                                                        ′
      satisfies b′ − a′ skBFV = ⌈Q′ · eBFV (X)/Q⌉ + ⌈ Qt · eRLWEenc (X)⌉ + eModSW (X). Now, if the i-th
      coefficient corresponds to a pertinent message, the total error is bounded by ⌈Q′ · eBFV /Q⌉ +
          ′
      ⌈ Qt · r⌉ + eModSW . When further scaled to t after decrypting the BFV ciphertext, we obtain
      ⌈t · eBFV /Q⌉ + r + Q′ · eModSW /t ≤ r + Q′ · eModSW /t + Q′ /t ≤ r′ (since eBFV ≤ Q/t by the
      correctness of BFV) by line 2.
  8
      Q′ can be set differently as well, resulting in a different ciphertext-size and error tradeoff.




                                                             31
     Therefore, except for negligible probability, the recipient obtains the indices that are pertinent.
     Then, by the correctness of batchPIR, the recipient obtains the correct payloads. Thus, the
     completeness of UnifOMR holds.
   • (Soundness) As mentioned above, eRLWEenc is uniform over Zt for impertinent messages. Thus,
     in line 22, we obtain a value in v ∈ ZQ′ , where if we compute v · t/Q′ ∈ R, the integer value is
     uniform in [0, t]. Thus, the probability that the resulting element is in [−r′ , r′ ] is bounded by
     (2⌈r′ · t/Q′ ⌉ + 1)/t. All the ℓ elements fall in this range with independent probability, thereby
             ′    ′ ⌉+1
     = ( 2⌈r ·t/Q
                t       )ℓ ≤ ϵp as guaranteed by line 2.
   • (Privacy) Privacy is straightforward. We argue with a hybrid argument.

        – hyb0 : same as our algorithm.
        – hyb1 : replace the index set S with a randomly sampled index set S ′ with size k̄ for the
          batchPIR query.
        – hyb2 : replace the detection key with uniformly random ring elements.
        – hyb3 : replace the clue key with uniformly random ring elements.

     hyb0 and hyb1 are indistinguishable by the privacy guarantee of batchPIR (note that in our
     original scheme, we always query with some set S with size k̄ regardless of the reply from
     the first round). hyb1 and hyb2 are indistinguishable by the underlying RLWE assumption
     (since the encrypted skclue is sampled independently from skdet = skBFV ). hyb2 and hyb3 are
     indistinguishable again by the underlying RLWE assumption. Lastly, hyb3 is trivially secure
     again the Fig. 2 game. Thus, UnifOMR satisfies the privacy guarantee.
   • (Strong-detection-key-unlinkability) Lastly, strong-detection-key-unlinkability is similar to
     privacy. Even obtaining skclue , the detection key and batchPIR queries are still indistin-
     guishable from uniform random (since there security is dependent on skBFV , which is sampled
     independently from skclue ).


Remark 6.2. In [58], a primitive call Oblivious Message Detection (OMD) is also defined. The
difference is that OMD only requires the recipients to obtain the pertinent indices instead of the
real payloads. One can alternatively view OMD as OMR, but all the payloads are just indices
instead of arbitrary bit strings.
    UnifOMR can alternatively be viewed as a realization of OMD by using linear homomorphic
encryption and then transformed into OMR by utilizing batchPIR. We call the OMD variant of
our scheme UnifOMD.
Remark 6.3. As mentioned, the method of using SlotToCoeff is more general, since in some cases,
one may want the detection key to only include a single BFV ciphertext encrypting sk directly
(lifted from the ring used for RLWEenc to the ring used for BFV) to reduce the detection key
size. In this case, the coefficient embedding does not work. However, similarly, we can still use
the slot embedding and then use the SlotToCoeff trick above to move the errors to the coefficietns.
Additionally, as mentioned, SlotToCoeff is also a matrix multiplication and can therefore be merged
with A × ⃗s. I.e., SlotToCoeff means U × A × ⃗s for some matrix U , and the detector could compute
U × A before multiplying ⃗s, which is the encrypted value. Such case is very application dependent
and thereby we leave it for future works to explore its use cases.

                                                  32
6.3        Additional Optimizations
This section introduces some additional optimizations that are orthogonal to the scheme itself.
Balancing communication by tuning false positive rate. One may notice that the detection
(partial decryption) portion of UnifOMR has a communication cost of O(N · log(1/ϵp )), while the
PIR portion of UnifOMR has a communication cost of O(k +N ·ϵp ) 9 . Thus, one could set a larger ϵp
to slightly increase the total number of messages to be fetched using batchPIR to reduce the total
communication cost. On the other hand, since batchPIR communication cost is also dependent on
the payload size, which could be megabytes or larger for a pictorial or video message, the batchPIR
component may dominate the communication cost. In this case, ϵp should be set to be as low as
possible.
     Note that the change of false positive rate, in general, does not cause any issue as discussed
in [58]. Specifically, the payloads should also be encrypted. Thus, the clients should be able
to distinguish true positives from false positives easily. Similar situations have been encountered
by PIR as well: PIR queries usually contain more than the queried entries themselves to ensure
efficiency (e.g., see [68, 43]). Thus, we believe adjusting the false positive rate for better efficiency
is preferred in most cases.
NTT preprocessing. Naively performing a ring element multiplication takes O(D2 ) time where
D is the ring dimension. Thus, instead, an implementation usually performs a Number Theoretic
transformation (NTT) over the two to-be-multiplied ring elements, which takes D log(D)/2 field-
element multiplications per NTT, multiply the NTT form ring elements, which takes D field-element
multiplications, performs element-wise multiplications between the two NTT form ring elements,
which takes D field-element multiplications, and then performs an inverse NTT (INTT) back with
the same cost as NTT. This process instead takes O(D log(D)) time.
    For UnifOMR, this can be further improved. Specifically, for detection keys being Enc(skclue [i])
, the keys can be directly uploaded as in NTT form. Then, for each bj , a′w (line 19), the server first
performs an NTT transformation on them (which can be used over all the recipients this detector is
assisting) and then performs the element-wise multiplication in its NTT form. Lastly, it performs
the summation in the NTT form first before transforming it back using INTT. In this case, the
total cost is only nD + D log(D)/2 multiplications per D messages (ignoring the NTT that can be
used for all clients), where n is the secret key dimension for the clue.


7         Evaluation
We present our experiment benchmarks in this section by starting with parameter selection.

7.1        Parameter Selection
The parameters needed for UnifOMR are:

         • n (RLWEenc secret key dimension)10 ,

         • q (RLWEenc ciphertext modulus),
     9
    This is dependent on the batchPIR scheme, but normally linear in k.
    If n is not a power of two, we find the smallest power of two n′ > n and pad n with zeros, so we can work over
    10

the cyclotomic ring we need. Then, we skip these zeros during homomorphic decryption to save computation costs.


                                                       33
Figure 7: Efficiency for varying number of messages N , with fixed k = 500, P = 612 bytes, log-log
scale. The baseline has no detector computation in the leftmost subplot; the line is added for
illustrative purposes in the legend, which applies to all subplots.




Figure 8: Efficiency for varying (cap on the) number of pertinent messages k, with fixed N =
221 , P = 612 bytes, log-log scale. The baseline has no detector computation in the leftmost subplot;
the line is added for illustrative purposes in the legend, which applies to all subplots.




Figure 9: Efficiency for varying payload size P in bytes, with fixed N = 221 , k = 500, log-log scale.
The baseline has no detector computation in the leftmost subplot; the line is added for illustrative
purposes in the legend, which applies to all subplots.




                                                 34
          n      q         hRLWEenc   r    ℓ   σ     D      Q        hBFV   Q′         σBFV   r′             ϵn      ϵp     Security
 Param1   900    4169729   80         48   1   0.6   2048   ≈ 260    400    67104769   3.2    61 · 16 + 16   2−30    2−15   110-bit
 Param2   1024   1032193   80         84   2   0.5   4096   ≈ 260    128    =q         3.2    149            2−128   2−22   > 128-bit


Table 1: Parameter choices for UnifOMR. n: RLWEenc secret key dimension; q: RLWEenc ciphertext
modulus; hRLWEenc : hamming weight of RLWEenc secret key; r: RLWEenc error range bound; ℓ:
number of bits encrypted by RLWEenc ciphertexts; σ: RLWEenc error standard deviation; D: BFV
ring dimension; Q: BFV initial ciphertext modulus; hBFV : hamming weight of BFV secret key; Q′ :
BFV ciphertext modulus after modulus switching; σBFV : BFV error standard deviation; r′ : final
error range bound after error merge via modulus switching; ϵn : false negative rate; ϵp : false positive
rate; λ: computational security parameter.




Figure 10: Detector runtime breakdown between detection (via UnifOMD, Param1) and retrieval
(via VecBatchPIR [73]) given different parameters. Unless explicitly varied on the x-axis, we fix the
parameters to N = 221 , P = 612 bytes, and k = 500. From left to right, the plots are linear-log
scaled, linear-log scaled, and linear-linear scaled, respectively.


   • hRLWEenc (hamming weight of RLWEenc secret key),

   • r (RLWEenc error range bound),

   • ℓ (number of bits encrypted by RLWEenc ciphertexts),

   • σRLWEenc (RLWEenc error standard deviation),

   • D (BFV ring dimension),

   • Q (BFV initial ciphertext modulus),

   • hBFV (hamming weight of BFV secret key),

   • Q′ (BFV ciphertext modulus after modulus switching),

   • σBFV (BFV error standard deviation),

   • r′ (final error range bound after error merge via modulus switching),

   • ϵn (false positive rate),

   • ϵp (false negative rate),

   • λ (computational security parameter).

                                                                35
False negative rate ϵn . To choose parameters given ϵn , the main consideration is Q′ and r, r′ .
Essentially, we want to make sure that after merging, the resulting error stays in range [−r′ , r′ ] with
at least 1 − ϵn − negl(λ) probability. As calculated in the proof of Theorem 6.1,√ the error bound
is r + Q′ · eModSW /t + 1. Then, r is a Gaussian error with standard deviation 2 · hRLWEenc + 1 · σ
(see [60] for details), and eModSW is simply bounded by hBFV /2 (since the rounding error of each
coefficient is at most 0.5). Thus, we bound the false negative probability using this.
False positive rate ϵp . Given, r′ , we have ϵp ≤ ((2⌊t · r′ /Q′ ⌉ + 1)/t)ℓ as calculated in the proof
of Theorem 6.1. Thus, given r′ , Q′ , t set above according to ϵn , we can set ℓ accordingly given ϵp .
BFV noise. Lastly, we want to guarantee that BFV is correctly computed, so the noise before
the merging step should be smaller than ⌊log(Q)⌋/⌈log(t)⌉ − 1. We can analyze the error as follows:
The circuit consists of an addition of n + 1 additions, and one level of plaintext multiplication.
Given an initial ciphertext with error standard√deviation σBFV , one plaintext multiplication grows
          by a multiplicative factor of log(t) · D. Then, the additions introduce
the error √                                                                    √ a√multiplicative
factor of n + 1. Thus, the final error standard deviation becomes log(t) · D · n + 1 · σBFV .
We simply need to bound this error to be within ⌊log(Q)⌋/⌈log(t)⌉ − 1 bits (except for negligible
probability).
Parameter set 1. We first choose a parameter set to minimize the computation and com-
munication of UnifOMD, while guaranteeing BFV correctness and ϵn = 2−30 as in prior works
([58, 59, 60, 51]). It sacrifices ϵp by a bit (about 2−15 instead of 2−20 as in prior works). Security-
wise, this parameter set provides 110-bit computational security as [60], per LWE-estimator [2].
We believe that this parameter set is sufficient for most use cases and use it as our main result.11
Parameter set 2. We then choose a parameter set which provides ϵn = 2−128 and 128-bit
computational security (per LWE-estimator [2]), and thus is sufficient for essentially any real-world
applications. The ϵp is also reduced to 2−22 , which is not as small as ϵn or λ, since as discussed in
Section 6.3, ϵp is only relevant for efficiency.

7.2    Comparison and Benchmark
We implemented UnifOMR in C++, available at [77], based on the OMR library [77], which is
based on SEAL [70] and PALISADE (OpenFHE) [78, 8]. We first compare our Oblivious Message
Detection (OMD) component, denoted as UnifOMD (see Remark 6.2 for more discussion), with
the state-of-the-art construction SophOMD, [51], and also an additional baseline, the strawman
discussed in Section 6.1, instantiated with Elliptic Curve Diffie-Hellman (ECDH) key exchange
[32, 71, 49] plus AES [75].12 Then, we compare our OMR construction, UnifOMR (instantiated
with VecBatchPIR [73] as the batchPIR construction13 ), with SophOMR.
    We run all the benchmarks on a Google Compute Cloud n2-standard-16 instance with 16GB
RAM for a fair comparison for the representative costs below. For additional parameters, a larger
memory is needed to store the database. We use n2-standard-128 with 512GB RAM for benchmark-
ing the underlying VecBatchPIR scheme [73]. All of the following benchmarks for our constructions
have been run for ≥ 10 times with a standard deviation of < 5%, and we report the average.
  11
     See Footnote 10 for how n = 900, not a power-of-two, is used.
  12
     We consider instantiating it using ECDH since other mainstream solutions have worse efficiency, like RSA [82]
or Crystals-Kyber [84]. We include a comparison in Appendix D.1.
  13
     See Appendix D.3 for discussion on why we chose VecBatchPIR.




                                                       36
                                   Detector runtime   Digest size   Recipient runtime   Detection key   Clue key    Clue       Rounds of
                                         (sec)          (KB)              (ms)             (MB)          (bytes)   (bytes)   communication
       Baseline (ECDH [90])                    N/A        24576                 27623            N/A          32        48
       SophOMD (OMD) [51]                       743          132                   14             114       2576     2565
                                                                                                                                   1
        UnifOMD (Param1)                         12         3328                   25              13       2491     2477
        UnifOMD (Param2)                         27         5120                   51              30       2576     2565

 Baseline (ECDH [90]) + batchPIR                14         24576               27623              18         32        48          2
       SophOMR (OMR) [51]                     1258           263                   6             142       2576      2565          1
        UnifOMR (Param1)                        25          4163                  28              31       2491      2477
                                                                                                                                   2
        UnifOMR (Param2)                        41          5955                  54              48       2576      2565


Table 2: Efficiency comparison given parameters: total number of messages N = 219 , (the cap on)
the number of pertinent messages k = k̄ = 50, payload size P = 612 bytes, as in [58, 59, 60, 51].
UnifOMD is the detection component (i.e., recipients receive only pertinent indices, not payloads)
of UnifOMR and SophOMD is its counterpart of SophOMR.


    Note that for SophOMR [51], the provided open-sourced implementation only supports up to
N = 220 (and errors occur with N ≥ 220 ), so we benchmark up to N = 220 . However, the detector
procedure of SophOMR for N > 216 is precisely running the same algorithm for N/216 times.14
Hence, we estimate the runtime for larger N given the benchmarks for N ≤ 220 . We benchmarked
for N = 216 to 220 to verify that the behavior is indeed as expected.
Representative costs. As shown in Table 2, we first compare our OMR component with the
baseline solution (ECDH + SKE; see Appendix D.1), and SophOMD. Compared to the baseline
UnifOMD (Param1) has > 1000× smaller recipient runtime and ∼ 7× smaller digest size. This
greatly reduces recipients’ resource burden. When compared to SophOMD, UnifOMD (Param1)
has > 60× smaller detector runtime, which, as discussed, is the main performance bottleneck
of OMR/OMD. Furthermore, UnifOMD has about 9× smaller detection key size compared to
SophOMD.
   A similar conclusion (but slightly smaller advantage) can be drawn for our OMR construction
UnifOMR. For Param2, our efficiency is < 2× worse than our Param1 for all metrics. However, we
emphasize that Param1 should be sufficient for most applications in practice, since it guarantees
similar security and false negative rate ϵn as prior works [58, 59, 60].
Efficiency with respect to N . Fig. 7 shows the detector runtime, recipient runtime, and
communication costs with varying N = 216 to 223 (again, for SophOMR with N > 220 , we scale
it as discussed above) and fixed k = 500, payload size P = 612 bytes. The detector runtime of
UnifOMR is > 100× faster than SophOMR for large N , while both scale linearly. Our client runtime
increases with N as well, but stays under 1 second even for N = 223 , compared to > 400 seconds
for the baseline.
    In terms of digest size, our scheme scales linearly while SophOMR stays constant. However,
even for N = 223 , the digest size is only ∼ 57MB for Param1. Given a 13MB/sec bandwidth
(which is below the average world download speed on mobile phones [1]), it takes only < 5 seconds
to download the digest. Thus, we believe such a tradeoff for detector time is greatly preferred in
most applications.
Efficiency with respect to k. Fig. 8 shows the detector runtime, client runtime, and com-
munication costs with varying k from 125 to 16000 and fixed N = 221 and payload size P =612
  14
    Technically, for larger N , additional noise analysis might be necessary for the underlying BFV/BGV, so the
runtime for prior works may be slightly worse. However, we ignore this potential overhead.


                                                                    37
bytes.15 Our detector runtime fluctuates with the underlying batchPIR runtime. As k increases,
our detector runtime can be more than three orders of magnitude smaller than SophOMR, and
our communication costs become very similar to SophOMR as well. At the same time, while our
recipient runtime remains larger than SophOMR, it retains less than 1 second, > 1000× smaller
than the baseline solution.
Efficiency with respect to payload size. As in prior single-server OMR work, we focus on the
payload size P = 612 bytes, corresponding to Zcash Sapling transactions [45] (see [58]). However,
this size may vary a lot by application. Thus, we demonstrate how the performance of UnifOMR
changes with respect to payload size. Fig. 9 shows the detector runtime, client runtime, and
communication costs with varying payload size from 612 to 3060 and fixed N = 221 , k = 500. We
achieve > 100× speedup over SophOMR regarding the detector runtime with recipient runtime
under 0.4 seconds and ∼30 MB digest.
Cost breakdown. Fig. 10 illustrates the detector runtime breakdown of UnifOMR, which boils
down to UnifOMD and VecBatchPIR. By fixing the payload size at P = 612 bytes and the number
of pertinent messages at k = 500, the underlying PIR component accounts for roughly two-thirds
of the total detector runtime. As either P or k increases (with the board size fixed at N = 221 ),
the share of VecBatchPIR progressively comes to dominate the overall runtime, rising to ∼ 90% for
large parameters. We include additional efficiency breakdown and that of the parameter set 2 in
Appendix D.2.
Latency. A very recent concurrent work InstantOMR [54] proposed the notion of “latency” for
OMR, which is the total server time for a single message (or a small batch of messages). InstantOMR
achieves low latency (< 0.1 second for a single message) at the cost of having higher throughput
(overall detector runtime). Specifically, for 216 messages (or all parameters we benchmark), the
detector runtime of InstantOMR is > 10× slower than SophOMR, thereby > 250× slower than
our UnifOMR. Even in terms of latency, UnifOMR is only < 2 seconds. While this is not as low
as InstantOMR, our latency is > 26× lower than SophOMR, and we believe such a low latency is
sufficient for most applications. We discuss these and compare UnifOMR with InstantOMR in more
detail in Appendix D.4.


8         Conclusion
In this work, we addressed two central open questions for Oblivious Message Retrieval (OMR).16
First, we established a formal relationship between OMR and Private Information Retrieval (PIR),
showing that OMR (with strong detection-key-unlinkability) is at least as hard as PIR as a crypto-
graphic primitive. We show that such OMR constructions can be used to build PIR with nearly no
overhead. This result not only clarifies the conceptual boundaries between the two but also implies
inherent efficiency constraints for OMR schemes, both asymptotically and concretely.
     Second, we show that concretely we can indeed have an OMR construction that achieves ef-
ficiency close to the batchPIR construction we use as a blackbox. Specifically, we proposed a
new OMR construction, UnifOMR, that significantly improves detector runtime, achieving 20× to
1080× speedup in terms of detector runtime over the state-of-the-art SophOMR for parameters
benchmarked above, which is the main performance bottleneck of OMR, as recognized in prior
    15
         Again, for SophOMR, we use N = 220 runtime multiplied by two instead. However, as mentioned, this is accurate.
    16
         See also Appendix E for more open questions.



                                                            38
works. Furthermore, the underlying batchPIR construction takes 50% to 92% of the total detector
runtime.
Suitable applications. UnifOMR achieves such speedup at the cost of having the digest size being
larger than prior works. However, as shown in Section 7, for representative parameters tested in
prior works, we reduce the detector runtime from > 1250 seconds to only 25 seconds, at the cost of
enlarging the digest size by ∼4MB, which takes 0.3 seconds to download given 13MB/sec bandwidth
(below the average world download speed on mobile phones [1]). For the extensive parameters we
have tested in Section 7, our digest size is kept in ⪅ 100MB, which takes < 8 seconds to download,
while saving the detector runtime in the order of hours or even days for such a digest size cost.
Thus, we believe that this tradeoff is preferable in most real-world applications.




Acknowledgements
We are grateful to the anonymous reviewers for their insightful suggestions. We thank Jingyu Li
for answering questions regarding PIRANA [56]. Zeyu Liu is supported by Yale CADMY.




                                               39
References
 [1] Speedtest global index, July 2025. https://www.speedtest.net/global-index.

 [2] Martin R. Albrecht, Rachel Player, and Sam Scott. On the concrete hardness of learning with
     errors. Journal of Mathematical Cryptology, pages 169–203, 2015.

 [3] Asra Ali, Tancrède Lepoint, Sarvar Patel, Mariana Raykova, Phillipp Schoppmann, Karn Seth,
     and Kevin Yeo. Communication–Computation trade-offs in PIR. In 30th USENIX Security
     Symposium (USENIX Security 21), pages 1811–1828. USENIX Association, August 2021.

 [4] Sebastian Angel, Hao Chen, Kim Laine, and Srinath T. V. Setty. PIR with compressed queries
     and amortized query processing. In 2018 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy. IEEE
     Computer Society Press, 2018.

 [5] Diego F. Aranha, Anamaria Costache, Antonio Guimarães, and Eduardo Soria-Vazquez. HE-
     LIOPOLIS: Verifiable computation over homomorphically encrypted data from interactive or-
     acle proofs is practical. In Kai-Min Chung and Yu Sasaki, editors, ASIACRYPT 2024, Part V,
     volume 15488 of LNCS, pages 302–334. Springer, Singapore, December 2024.

 [6] Thomas Attema, Pedro Capitão, and Lisa Kohl. On homomorphic secret sharing from
     polynomial-modulus LWE. In Alexandra Boldyreva and Vladimir Kolesnikov, editors,
     PKC 2023, Part II, volume 13941 of LNCS, pages 3–32. Springer, Cham, May 2023.

 [7] Adam Back, Ulf Möller, and Anton Stiglic. Traffic analysis attacks and trade-offs in anonymity
     providing systems. In Proceedings of the 4th International Workshop on Information Hiding,
     IHW ’01, page 245–257, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2001. Springer-Verlag.

 [8] Ahmad Al Badawi, Andreea Alexandru, Jack Bates, Flavio Bergamaschi, David Bruce Cousins,
     Saroja Erabelli, Nicholas Genise, Shai Halevi, Hamish Hunt, Andrey Kim, Yongwoo Lee, Zeyu
     Liu, Daniele Micciancio, Carlo Pascoe, Yuriy Polyakov, Ian Quah, Saraswathy R.V., Kurt
     Rohloff, Jonathan Saylor, Dmitriy Suponitsky, Matthew Triplett, Vinod Vaikuntanathan, and
     Vincent Zucca. OpenFHE: Open-source fully homomorphic encryption library. Cryptology
     ePrint Archive, Paper 2022/915; WAHC’22, 2022.

 [9] Gabrielle Beck, Julia Len, Ian Miers, and Matthew Green. Fuzzy message detection. ACM
     CCS 2021.

[10] Amos Beimel, Yuval Ishai, and Tal Malkin. Reducing the servers’ computation in private
     information retrieval: PIR with preprocessing. Journal of Cryptology, 17(2):125–151, March
     2004.

[11] Mihir Bellare, Alexandra Boldyreva, Anand Desai, and David Pointcheval. Key-privacy in
     public-key encryption. In ASIACRYPT 2001, LNCS, pages 566–582, December 2001.

[12] Eli Ben Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Christina Garman, Matthew Green, Ian Miers, Eran
     Tromer, and Madars Virza. Zerocash: Decentralized anonymous payments from bitcoin. In
     2014 IEEE S&P, pages 459–474, 2014.



                                                40
[13] Eli Ben-Sasson, Alessandro Chiesa, Christina Garman, Matthew Green, Ian Miers, Eran
     Tromer, and Madars Virza. Zerocash: Decentralized anonymous payments from bitcoin. In
     2014 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 459–474. IEEE Computer Society Press,
     May 2014.

[14] Olivier Bernard, Marc Joye, Nigel P. Smart, and Michael Walter. Drifting towards better error
     probabilities in fully homomorphic encryption schemes. In Serge Fehr and Pierre-Alain Fouque,
     editors, EUROCRYPT 2025, Part VIII, volume 15608 of LNCS, pages 181–211. Springer,
     Cham, May 2025.

[15] Alexander Bienstock, Sarvar Patel, Joon Young Seo, and Kevin Yeo. Batch PIR and labeled
     PSI with oblivious ciphertext compression. In Davide Balzarotti and Wenyuan Xu, editors,
     USENIX Security 2024. USENIX Association, August 2024.

[16] Andrea Bittau, Úlfar Erlingsson, Petros Maniatis, Ilya Mironov, Ananth Raghunathan, David
     Lie, Mitch Rudominer, Ushasree Kode, Julien Tinnes, and Bernhard Seefeld. Prochlo: Strong
     privacy for analytics in the crowd. In SOSP, pages 441–459, 2017.

[17] Grant Bosworth, Keewoo Lee, and Sunwoong Kim. Leveraging fpgas for homomorphic matrix-
     vector multiplication in oblivious message retrieval. In Asilomar Conference on Signals, Sys-
     tems, and Computers, 2025.

[18] Sean Bowe, Alessandro Chiesa, Matthew Green, Ian Miers, Pratyush Mishra, and Howard Wu.
     Zexe: Enabling decentralized private computation. In 2020 IEEE S&P (SP), pages 947–964,
     2020.

[19] Elette Boyle, Niv Gilboa, and Yuval Ishai. Breaking the circuit size barrier for secure compu-
     tation under DDH. In Matthew Robshaw and Jonathan Katz, editors, CRYPTO 2016, Part I,
     volume 9814 of LNCS, pages 509–539. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, August 2016.

[20] Elette Boyle, Lisa Kohl, and Peter Scholl. Homomorphic secret sharing from lattices without
     FHE. In Yuval Ishai and Vincent Rijmen, editors, EUROCRYPT 2019, Part II, volume 11477
     of LNCS, pages 3–33. Springer, Cham, May 2019.

[21] Zvika Brakerski. Fully homomorphic encryption without modulus switching from classical
     GapSVP. In CRYPTO 2012, LNCS. Springer, August 2012.

[22] Alexander Burton, Samir Jordan Menon, and David J. Wu. Respire: High-rate PIR for
     databases with small records. In Bo Luo, Xiaojing Liao, Jun Xu, Engin Kirda, and David Lie,
     editors, ACM CCS 2024, pages 1463–1477. ACM Press, October 2024.

[23] Marina Checri, Renaud Sirdey, Aymen Boudguiga, and Jean-Paul Bultel. On the practi-
     cal CPAD security of “exact” and threshold FHE schemes and libraries. In Leonid Reyzin
     and Douglas Stebila, editors, CRYPTO 2024, Part III, volume 14922 of LNCS, pages 3–33.
     Springer, Cham, August 2024.

[24] Jung Hee Cheon, Hyeongmin Choe, Alain Passelègue, Damien Stehlé, and Elias Suvanto.
     Attacks against the IND-CPAD security of exact FHE schemes. In Bo Luo, Xiaojing Liao,
     Jun Xu, Engin Kirda, and David Lie, editors, ACM CCS 2024, pages 2505–2519. ACM Press,
     October 2024.

                                                41
[25] Jung Hee Cheon, Kyoohyung Han, Andrey Kim, Miran Kim, and Yongsoo Song. Bootstrap-
     ping for approximate homomorphic encryption. In Jesper Buus Nielsen and Vincent Rijmen,
     editors, EUROCRYPT 2018, Part I, volume 10820 of LNCS, pages 360–384. Springer, Cham,
     April / May 2018.
[26] Benny Chor, Oded Goldreich, Eyal Kushilevitz, and Madhu Sudan. Private information re-
     trieval. In 36th FOCS, pages 41–50. IEEE Computer Society Press, October 1995.
[27] Haotian Chu, Xiao Wang, and Yanxue Jia. Private signaling secure against actively corrupted
     servers. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper 2025/1056, 2025.
[28] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Dan Boneh, and David Mazières. Riposte: An anonymous messaging
     system handling millions of users. In 2015 IEEE S&P, pages 321–338, 2015.
[29] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Alexandra Henzinger, Yael Tauman Kalai, and Vinod Vaikuntanathan.
     Somewhat homomorphic encryption from linear homomorphism and sparse LPN. In Serge Fehr
     and Pierre-Alain Fouque, editors, EUROCRYPT 2025, Part II, volume 15602 of LNCS, pages
     3–33. Springer, Cham, May 2025.
[30] Henry Corrigan-Gibbs and Dmitry Kogan. Private information retrieval with sublinear online
     time. In Anne Canteaut and Yuval Ishai, editors, EUROCRYPT 2020, Part I, volume 12105
     of LNCS, pages 44–75. Springer, Cham, May 2020.
[31] Giovanni Di Crescenzo, Tal Malkin, and Rafail Ostrovsky. Single database private information
     retrieval implies oblivious transfer. In Bart Preneel, editor, EUROCRYPT 2000, volume 1807
     of LNCS, pages 122–138. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, May 2000.
[32] Whitfield Diffie and Martin E. Hellman. New directions in cryptography. IEEE Transactions
     on Information Theory, 22(6):644–654, 1976.
[33] Junfeng Fan and Frederik Vercauteren. Somewhat practical fully homomorphic encryption.
     Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2012/144, 2012. https://ia.cr/2012/144.
[34] Ben Fisch, Arthur Lazzaretti, Zeyu Liu, and Charalampos Papamanthou. ThorPIR: Single
     server PIR via homomorphic thorp shuffles. In Bo Luo, Xiaojing Liao, Jun Xu, Engin Kirda,
     and David Lie, editors, ACM CCS 2024, pages 1448–1462. ACM Press, October 2024.
[35] Mariana Gama, Emad Heydari Beni, Jiayi Kang, Jannik Spiessens, and Frederik Vercauteren.
     Blind zkSNARKs: for private proof delegation and verifiable computation over encrypted data.
     CiC, 2(3):10, 2025.
[36] Sanjam Garg, Aarushi Goel, and Mingyuan Wang. How to prove statements obliviously? In
     Leonid Reyzin and Douglas Stebila, editors, CRYPTO 2024, Part X, volume 14929 of LNCS,
     pages 449–487. Springer, Cham, August 2024.
[37] Craig Gentry. Fully homomorphic encryption using ideal lattices. In ACM Symposium on
     Theory of Computing, STOC ’09, page 169–178. ACM, 2009.
[38] Yael Gertner, Sampath Kannan, Tal Malkin, Omer Reingold, and Mahesh Viswanathan. The
     relationship between public key encryption and oblivious transfer. In 41st FOCS, pages 325–
     335. IEEE Computer Society Press, November 2000.

                                               42
[39] Ashrujit Ghoshal, Baitian Li, Yaohua Ma, Chenxin Dai, and Elaine Shi. Scalable multi-server
     private information retrieval. LNCS, pages 582–610. Springer, Cham, November 2025.

[40] Tiantian Gong, Ryan Henry, Alexandros Psomas, and Aniket Kate. More is merrier: Relax
     the non-collusion assumption in multi-server PIR. In 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and
     Privacy, pages 4348–4366. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2024.

[41] Tiantian Gong, Aniket Kate, Hemanta K. Maji, and Hai H. Nguyen. Disincentivize collusion in
     verifiable secret sharing. In Serge Fehr and Pierre-Alain Fouque, editors, EUROCRYPT 2025,
     Part V, volume 15605 of LNCS, pages 34–64. Springer, Cham, May 2025.

[42] Tiantian Gong and Zeyu Liu. Rational secret sharing with competition. Financial Cryptogra-
     phy and Data Security 2025 (FC 25), 2025.

[43] Alexandra Henzinger, Matthew M. Hong, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Sarah Meiklejohn, and Vinod
     Vaikuntanathan. One server for the price of two: Simple and fast single-server private infor-
     mation retrieval. In Joseph A. Calandrino and Carmela Troncoso, editors, USENIX Security
     2023, pages 3889–3905. USENIX Association, August 2023.

[44] Alexandra Henzinger and Seyoon Ragavan. Two-server private information retrieval in sub-
     linear time and quasilinear space. Eurocrypt 2026, 2026.

[45] Daira Hopwood, Sean Bowe, Taylor Hornby, and Nathan Wilcox. Zcash Protocol Specification
     Version 2025.8.20. https://zips.z.cash/protocol/protocol.pdf, 2025.

[46] Sashidhar Jakkamsetti, Zeyu Liu, and Varun Madathil. Scalable private signaling. CSF 2025,
     2025. https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/572.

[47] Yanxue Jia, Varun Madathil, and Aniket Kate. HomeRun: High-efficiency oblivious message
     retrieval, unrestricted. In Bo Luo, Xiaojing Liao, Jun Xu, Engin Kirda, and David Lie, editors,
     ACM CCS 2024, pages 2012–2026. ACM Press, October 2024.

[48] Jaehyung Kim, Hanjun Li, Huijia Lin, and Zeyu Liu. SIMD HSS and aHMAC from interval
     encoding with application to one-bit-per-gate garbling. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Paper
     2026/485, 2026.

[49] Neal Koblitz. Elliptic curve cryptosystems. Mathematics of Computation, 48(177):203–209,
     1987.

[50] Arthur Lazzaretti, Zeyu Liu, Ben Fisch, Peihan Miao, and Charalampos Papamanthou. Multi-
     server doubly efficient PIR in the classical model and beyond. LNCS, pages 611–641. Springer,
     Cham, November 2025.

[51] Keewoo Lee and Yongdong Yeo. SophOMR: Improved oblivious message retrieval from SIMD-
     aware homomorphic compression. USENIX Security 2026, to appear, 2026.

[52] Baiyu Li and Daniele Micciancio. On the security of homomorphic encryption on approximate
     numbers. In Anne Canteaut and François-Xavier Standaert, editors, EUROCRYPT 2021,
     Part I, volume 12696 of LNCS, pages 648–677. Springer, Cham, October 2021.



                                                43
[53] Baiyu Li, Daniele Micciancio, Mariana Raykova, and Mark Schultz. Hintless single-server
     private information retrieval. In Leonid Reyzin and Douglas Stebila, editors, CRYPTO 2024,
     Part IX, volume 14928 of LNCS, pages 183–217. Springer, Cham, August 2024.

[54] Haofei Liang, Zeyu Liu, Eran Tromer, Xiang Xie, and Yu Yu. InstantOMR: Oblivious message
     retrieval with low latency and optimal parallelizability. USENIX Security 2026, 2026.

[55] Wei-Kai Lin, Ethan Mook, and Daniel Wichs. Doubly efficient private information retrieval
     and fully homomorphic RAM computation from ring LWE. In Barna Saha and Rocco A.
     Servedio, editors, 55th ACM STOC, pages 595–608. ACM Press, June 2023.

[56] Jian Liu, Jingyu Li, Di Wu, and Kui Ren. Pirana: Faster multi-query pir via constant-weight
     codes. In 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy (SP), pages 4315–4330. IEEE, 2024.

[57] Zeyu Liu, Katerina Sotiraki, Eran Tromer, and Yunhao Wang. Snake-eye resistant pke from
     lwe for oblivious message retrieval and robust encryption. In Annual International Conference
     on the Theory and Applications of Cryptographic Techniques, pages 126–156. Springer, 2025.

[58] Zeyu Liu and Eran Tromer. Oblivious message retrieval. In Yevgeniy Dodis and Thomas
     Shrimpton, editors, Advances in Cryptology – CRYPTO 2022, pages 753–783, Cham, 2022.
     Springer Nature Switzerland. Full version: Cryptology ePrint Archive 2021; internal citations
     follow the latter’s numbering.

[59] Zeyu Liu, Eran Tromer, and Yunhao Wang. Group oblivious message retrieval. S&P 2024.
     Full version on eprint https: // ia. cr/ 2023/ 534 , 2023.

[60] Zeyu Liu, Eran Tromer, and Yunhao Wang. Perfomr: Oblivious message retrieval with reduced
     communication and computation. USENIX Security 2024, 2024. Full version of this paper.
     Available on print: https://eprint.iacr.org/2024/204.

[61] Zeyu Liu and Yunhao Wang. Amortized functional bootstrapping in less than 7ms, with Õ(1)
     polynomial multiplications. Asiacrypt 2023. https://eprint.iacr.org/2023/910.

[62] Zeyu Liu and Yunhao Wang. Relaxed functional bootstrapping: A new perspective on bgv/bfv
     bootstrapping. In International Conference on the Theory and Application of Cryptology and
     Information Security, pages 208–240. Springer, 2024.

[63] Zeyu Liu, Yunhao Wang, and Ben Fisch. IND-CPA-D of relaxed functional bootstrapping: A
     new attack, A general fix, and A stronger model. In ACM CCS 2025, pages 2907–2921. ACM
     Press, November 2025.

[64] Joshua Lund. Technology preview: Sealed sender for signal. https://signal.org/blog/
     sealed-sender/, Oct. 2018.

[65] Vadim Lyubashevsky, Chris Peikert, and Oded Regev. On ideal lattices and learning with
     errors over rings. J. ACM, 2013.

[66] Varun Madathil, Alessandra Scafuro, István András Seres, Omer Shlomovits, and Denis Var-
     lakov. Private signaling. USENIX Security 2022, 2022.



                                               44
[67] Nick Mathewson and Roger Dingledine. Practical traffic analysis: extending and resisting
     statistical disclosure. In Proceedings of the 4th International Conference on Privacy Enhancing
     Technologies, PET’04, page 17–34, Berlin, Heidelberg, 2004. Springer-Verlag.

[68] Samir Jordan Menon and David J. Wu. SPIRAL: Fast, high-rate single-server PIR via FHE
     composition. In 2022 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 930–947. IEEE Com-
     puter Society Press, May 2022.

[69] Samir Jordan Menon and David J. Wu. YPIR: High-throughput single-server PIR with
     silent preprocessing. In Davide Balzarotti and Wenyuan Xu, editors, USENIX Security 2024.
     USENIX Association, August 2024.

[70] Microsoft SEAL (release 3.6). https://github.com/Microsoft/SEAL, November 2020. Mi-
     crosoft Research, Redmond, WA.

[71] Victor S. Miller. Use of elliptic curves in cryptography. In Hugh C. Williams, editor,
     CRYPTO’85, volume 218 of LNCS, pages 417–426. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, August 1986.

[72] Prateek Mittal, Ahmed Khurshid, Joshua Juen, Matthew Caesar, and Nikita Borisov. Stealthy
     traffic analysis of low-latency anonymous communication using throughput fingerprinting. In
     Yan Chen, George Danezis, and Vitaly Shmatikov, editors, ACM CCS 2011, pages 215–226.
     ACM Press, October 2011.

[73] Muhammad Haris Mughees and Ling Ren. Vectorized batch private information retrieval.
     In 2023 IEEE Symposium on Security and Privacy, pages 437–452. IEEE Computer Society
     Press, May 2023.

[74] Milad Nasr, Amir Houmansadr, and Arya Mazumdar. Compressive traffic analysis: A new
     paradigm for scalable traffic analysis. In Bhavani M. Thuraisingham, David Evans, Tal Malkin,
     and Dongyan Xu, editors, ACM CCS 2017, pages 2053–2069. ACM Press, October / November
     2017.

[75] National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST). Fips 197: Advanced encryption
     standard (AES). Technical report, NIST, 2001. Accessed: 2025-08-25.

[76] Shen Noether. Ring signature confidential transactions for monero. Cryptology ePrint Archive,
     Paper 2015/1098, 2015. https://eprint.iacr.org/2015/1098.

[77] Oblivious message retrieval implementation.           https://github.com/ZeyuThomasLiu/
     ObliviousMessageRetrieval, December 2021.

[78] PALISADE lattice cryptography library (release 11.2). https://palisade-crypto.org/,
     June 2021.

[79] Kabir Peshawaria, Zeyu Liu, Ben Fisch, and Eran Tromer. Laminate: Succinct SIMD-friendly
     verifiable FHE. Cryptology ePrint Archive, Report 2025/2285, 2025.

[80] Sihang Pu, Sri AravindaKrishnan Thyagarajan, Nico Döttling, and Lucjan Hanzlik. Post
     quantum fuzzy stealth signatures and applications. CCS 23, 2023.



                                                45
[81] R L Rivest, L Adleman, and M L Dertouzos. On data banks and privacy homomorphisms.
     Foundations of Secure Computation, pages 169–179, 1978.

[82] Ronald L. Rivest, Adi Shamir, and Leonard M. Adleman. A method for obtaining digital
     signatures and public-key cryptosystems. Communications of the Association for Computing
     Machinery, 21(2):120–126, February 1978.

[83] Ron Rothblum. Homomorphic encryption: From private-key to public-key. In Yuval Ishai,
     editor, TCC 2011, volume 6597 of LNCS, pages 219–234. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg, March
     2011.

[84] Peter Schwabe, Roberto Avanzi, Joppe Bos, Léo Ducas, Eike Kiltz, Tancrède Lepoint,
     Vadim Lyubashevsky, John M. Schanck, Gregor Seiler, Damien Stehlé, and Jintai Ding.
     CRYSTALS-KYBER. Technical report, National Institute of Standards and Technol-
     ogy, 2022. available at https://csrc.nist.gov/Projects/post-quantum-cryptography/
     selected-algorithms-2022.

[85] István András Seres, Balázs Pejó, and Péter Burcsi. The effect of false positives: Why fuzzy
     message detection leads to fuzzy privacy guarantees? In Ittay Eyal and Juan Garay, editors,
     Financial Cryptography and Data Security, pages 123–148, Cham, 2022. Springer International
     Publishing.

[86] Muhammad Shahid. Zcash overview v3, 2024. Accessed: 2025-08-25.

[87] Sandra Siby, Marc Juárez, Claudia Dı́az, Narseo Vallina-Rodriguez, and Carmela Troncoso.
     Encrypted DNS =⇒ privacy? A traffic analysis perspective. In NDSS 2020. The Internet
     Society, February 2020.

[88] Jaspal Singh, Yu Wei, and Vassilis Zikas. Information-theoretic multi-server private informa-
     tion retrieval with client preprocessing. In Elette Boyle and Mohammad Mahmoody, editors,
     TCC 2024, Part IV, volume 15367 of LNCS, pages 423–450. Springer, Cham, December 2024.

[89] J. Szefer. Survey of microarchitectural side and covert channels, attacks, and defenses. Journal
     of Hardware and Systems Security, 3:219–234, September 2019.

[90] The OpenSSL Project. Openssl: The open source toolkit for ssl/tls. https://www.openssl.
     org/, 2025. August, 2025.

[91] David Isaac Wolinsky, Henry Corrigan-Gibbs, Bryan Ford, and Aaron Johnson. Dissent in
     numbers: Making strong anonymity scale. In OSDI 12, pages 179–182. USENIX, October
     2012.

[92] Kevin Yeo. Lower bounds for (batch) PIR with private preprocessing. In Carmit Hazay and
     Martijn Stam, editors, EUROCRYPT 2023, Part I, volume 14004 of LNCS, pages 518–550.
     Springer, Cham, April 2023.

[93] Wenhao Zhang, Hanlin Liu, Kang Yang, Wen jie Lu, Yu Yu, Xiao Wang, and Chenkai Weng.
     BitGC made (more) efficient. Eurocrypt 2026, 2026.




                                                 46
[94] Xinxuan Zhang, Ruida Wang, Zeyu Liu, Binwu Xiang, Yi Deng, Ben Fisch, and Xianhui Lu.
     Phalanx: An FHE-friendly SNARK for verifiable computation on encrypted data. In ACM
     CCS 2025, pages 4035–4048. ACM Press, November 2025.

[95] Mingxun Zhou, Andrew Park, Wenting Zheng, and Elaine Shi. Piano: Extremely simple,
     single-server PIR with sublinear server computation. In 2024 IEEE Symposium on Security
     and Privacy, pages 4296–4314. IEEE Computer Society Press, May 2024.




                                            47
A     Additional OMR Definition
Compactness. [58] additionally defines the compactness of OMR. In summary, it says that the
digest size should essentially be at most polylogarithmic in N (and may be polynomial in k̄ where
k̄ ≤ N is the expected number of pertinent messages)

    • (Compactness) An OMR scheme is compact if for λ > 0, 0 < ϵp , ϵn < 1, let pp ← GenParam(1λ , ϵp , ϵn ),
      (skclue , pkclue ) ← OMR.GenClueKey(pp), (skdet , pkdet ) ← OMR.GenDetKey(pp, skclue ), for any
      board BB = {(x1 ,c1 ), . . . , (xN ,cN )}, letting M ← Retrieve(BB, pkdet , k̄), it always holds that:

            |M | = poly(λ, log N ) · log ϵ−1
                                          p · Õ(k̄ + ϵp N ) .


B     BFV Additive Homomorphic Encryption
Plaintext encoding. In practice, instead of having a polynomial in Rt = Zt [X]/(X D +1) directly
                                                         m = (m1 , . . . , mD ) ∈ ZD
as input, applications usually hold a vector of messages ⃗                         t . Thus,
                                                                                           Pto encrypti
such input messages, BFV first encodes the messages into another polynomial y(X) = i∈[D] yi X
                                   j
such that mj = y(ζj ), ζj := ζ 3 mod t, and ζ is the 2D-th primitive root of unity of t. Such
encoding can be done using the Inverse Number Theoretic Transform (INTT), which is a linear
transformation represented as matrix multiplication. We say that a BFV ciphertext has D slots,
each of which is a Zt element.
   It is easy to see that to encode ⃗m := (x, x, . . . , x) of size D for any x ∈ Zt , the polynomial is
y(X) = x, since y evaluated at any point is x.
   During operations, we refer to these encoded Zt vectors as “slots” and the coefficients of y(X)
encoding this vector as “coefficients”.
SlotToCoeff. One operation is called SlotToCoeff [25, 61, 62]. Essentially, this procedure ho-
momorphically move all the Zt elements inside the slots into coefficients: i.e.,Pgiven a ciphertext
encrypting y(X) encoding ⃗ m as above, this procedure terms it into m(X) := i∈[D] ⃗       m[i]X i . This
was first proposed for CKKS [25] and then officially adapted to BGV/BFV in [61]. Essentially, it is
a linear transformation that can be represented as a matrix multiplication: i.e., given a ciphertext
ct encrypting y(X), there is some matrix U ∈ ZD×D    t       (defined below) such that we can compute
ct′ = M × ct where M , and BFV.Dec(ct′ ) = m(X).

                                                       . . . ζ0D−1
                                                                     
                                 1    ζ0      ζ02
                                1
                                     ζ1      ζ12      . . . ζ1D−1   
                                .      .        .     .          .
                                   .    .        .       .        .
                                                                      
                                .
                                       .        .         .      .  
                                1 ζ D        2                 D−1 
                                         −1 ζ D
                                                  −1
                                                       . . .  ζ D
                                                                   −1 
                                                                       ∈ ZD×D
                                     2
                          U :=               2                 2
                                                                D−1        t
                                1
                                     ζ̄0     ζ̄02     . . . ζ̄0     
                                1                2             D−1 
                                     ζ̄1     ζ̄1      . . . ζ̄1 
                                .     .        .      ..        .. 
                                 ..   ..       ..         .      . 
                                                                     
                                              2                 D−1
                                 1 ζ̄ D −1 ζ̄ D −1 . . . ζ̄ D −1
                                          2       2              2




                                                      48
C       Additively Homomorphic Secret Key Encryption Implies PIR
For simplicity, we define this primitive in Z2 to be the message space, but it trivially extends to
other message space that allows addition.

Definition C.1 (Additively Homomorphic Symmetric Key Encryption). An Additively Homomor-
phic Symmetric Key Encryption (AHSKE) scheme consists of four PPT algorithms (GenParam, KeyGen, Enc, Dec)
defined as follows:

      • pp ← GenParam(1λ ): takes a security parameter λ; outputs a public parameter pp.

      • sk ← KeyGen(pp): takes the public parameter pp; outputs a secret key sk.

      • ct ← Enc(pp, sk, m): takes the public parameter pp and the secret key sk, generates the
        ciphertext c for the message m in message space Z2 ; outputs ct.

      • m ← Dec(pp, sk, ct): takes the public parameter pp, decrypts the ciphertext ct into a plaintext
        message m based on the secret key sk; outputs the message m.

The scheme must satisfy the following properties:

      • (Correctness) For any λ > 0, let pp ← GenParam(1λ ), let sk ← KeyGen(pp) and for any
        message m, let ct ← Enc(pp, sk, m) and m′ ← Dec(pp, sk,ct). It holds that if pp ̸= ⊥,
        Pr[m = m′ ] ≥ 1 − negl(λ).

      • (IND-CPA Security) For any PPT algorithm A = (A1 , A2 ): let pp ← GenParam(1λ ), sk ←
        KeyGen(pp); A1 chooses two messages and remembers state: (m0 , m1 , st) ← AEnc 1
                                                                                          sk
                                                                                             (pp, pk);
                                                              Encsk
        sample b ←$ {0,1} and ct ← Enc(pp,pk,mb ); let b ← A2 (st, ct); it holds that: Pr[b = b′ ] ≤
                                                         ′

        1/2 + negl(λ). Encsk means oracle access to the encryption procedure with secret key sk.

      • (Additive Homomorphism) For any λ > 0, let pp ← GenParam(1λ ), let sk ← KeyGen(pp) and
        for any message m1 , m2 ∈ Z2 , let cti ← Enc(pp, sk, mi ) for i ∈ [1,2], and m′ ← Dec(pp, sk,
        ct1 + ct2 ).17 It holds that if pp ̸= ⊥, Pr[m = m1 + m2 ∈ Z2 ] ≥ 1 − negl(λ).

AHESKE implies PIR. It is folklore that AHESKE implies PIR. However, to the best of our
knowledge, no explicit construction/proof has been presented in the literature. We therefore show
a simple lemma below.

Lemma C.2. If there exists an additively homomorphic symmetric√ key encryption AHSKE, N  there
exists a one-round PIR construction with communication cost O( N ) for a database ∈ {0,1} .

Proof. Given AHSKE, we construct the PIR scheme PIR as follows (since it has only one round, we
drop the subscript):

      • PIR.GenParam(1λ , N ):

           – ppAHSKE ← AHSKE.GenParam(1λ )
           – Return ppPIR = ppAHSKE
 17
      For simplicity, assume + is defined over ciphertext space in the natural way.


                                                           49
   • PIR.Query(ppC
                 PIR , i) :
                                √                                          √
        – Arrange database into N (WLOG assuming
                                              √        it is an integer)
                                                                √        by N size matrix DB′
          where DB[j][k] = DB[i] where j = ⌊i/ N ⌋, k = i mod N .
        – sk ← AHSKE.KeyGen(ppAHSKE )
                                                                                        √
        – ctk ← AHSKE.Enc(ppAHSKE , sk, 1) and ctl ← AHSKE.Enc(ppAHSKE ,sk, 0) for l ∈ [ N ] \
          {k}
        – Return qry := (ctl )l∈[√N ] , st := (sk, j)

   • PIR.Ans(ppPIR , qry, DB) :
                                √                                          √
        – Arrange database into N (WLOG assuming
                                              √        it is an integer)
                                                                √        by N size matrix DB′
          where DB[j][k] = DB[i] where j = ⌊i/ N ⌋, k = i mod N for all i ∈ [N ]
        – Return dig ← DB′ × qry

   • PIR.Decode(ppPIR , ans, st) :

        – Return res ← AHSKE.Dec(ppAHSKE , sk, dig[j])

    This scheme is a PIR construction in a straightforward way: correctness is guaranteed by the
correctness of AHSKE and privacy is guaranteed√by the IND–CPA security of AHSKE. Efficiency is
also√simply: the communication cost is simply N ciphertexts. And this scheme trivially extends
to N not being an integer (rounding up and padding the database accordingly).

Remark C.3. This proof, together with Theorem 5.2, then shows that if PIR implies OMR, then
AHSKE implies key-private PKE. This, to our knowledge, is still an open problem. There is a
black-box construction of PKE from AHSKE [83]. However, it seems hard to obtain a black-box
construction of key-private PKE from AHSKE, because homomorphism with respect to individual
keys does not appear to help obtain indistinguishability between different keys.
    For example, the PKE construction of [83] fails to obtain key-privacy for the following AHSKE.
Suppose there exists an AHSKE Π, and consider the AHSKE Π′ defined as follows, simply aug-
menting everything with a tag t that identifies the key:

   • Π′ .KeyGen(pp): sk ′ = (Π.KeyGen(pp),t ←$ {0,1}λ )

   • Π′ .Enc(pp,(sk,t),m): ct′ = (Π.Enc(pp,sk,m), t).

   • Addition: (ct1 ,t1 ) +Π′ (ct2 ,t2 ): defined as (ct1 +Π ct2 , t1 )

   • Π′ .Dec(pp, (sk,r), (ct,r̃)): Π.Dec(pp, sk, ct) if r = r̃, otherwise ⊥

This Π′ is also an AHSKE, but the resulting PKE via [83] is not key-private, since its PKE
ciphertexts consist of Π′ ciphertexts all under the same key, which in the case of Π′ preserves the t
component, and thus uniquely identifies the key used. More generally, it is hard to imagine how a
black-box construction applied to Π′ would sanitize away the t component of Π′ ciphertexts.
    Note that this question is independent of the main contribution of this work, which is to build
a practically efficient OMR construction, concretely matching the lower bound implied by the
reduction from PIR.


                                                        50
Figure 11: Degist size breakdown between detection (via UnifOMD, Param1) and retrieval (via
VecBatchPIR [73]). Unless explicitly varied on the x-axis, we fix the parameters to N = 221 ,
P = 612 bytes, and k = 500. From left to right, the plots are linear-log scaled, linear-log scaled,
and linear-linear scaled, respectively.




Figure 12: Recipient runtime breakdown between detection (via UnifOMD, Param1) and retrieval
(via VecBatchPIR [73]). Unless explicitly varied on the x-axis, we fix the parameters to N = 221 ,
P = 612 bytes, and k = 500. From left to right, the plots are linear-log scaled, linear-log scaled,
and linear-linear scaled, respectively.




                                                51
Figure 13: Detector runtime breakdown between detection (via UnifOMD, Param2) and retrieval
(via VecBatchPIR [73]). Unless explicitly varied on the x-axis, we fix the parameters to N = 221 ,
P = 612 bytes, and k = 500. From left to right, the plots are linear-log scaled, linear-log scaled,
and linear-linear scaled, respectively.


D     Additional Discussion on Evaluation
D.1     Baselines
We chose ECDH plus SKE in Section 7 as our baseline since, to our knowledge, this is the most
efficient way to instantiate the baseline, and is used in Zcash [13, 86]. The mainstream alternatives
include RSA [82] and Crystals-Kyber [84]. However, concretely:

    • RSA has a ciphertext size of 256 bytes and a decryption time of 0.63ms [90].

    • Crystals-Kyber has ciphertext size of 768 bytes and key decapsulating time of 0.06ms [84].

    • ECDH has “ciphertext size” of 32 bytes and key decapsulating time of 0.05ms [90].

It is obvious that ECDH is the best choice in terms of concrete efficiency.

D.2     Additional Benchmarks
D.2.1    Parameter Set 1 Efficiency Breakdown
Figs. 11 and 12 show the digest size and recipient runtime breakdown for UnifOMR between de-
tection via UnifOMD and retrieval via VecBatchPIR [73] with parameter set 1. As N grows larger,
UnifOMD dominates while as k, P grows, VecBatchPIR dominates.

D.2.2    Parameter Set 2 Efficiency Breakdown
Figs. 13 to 15 show the detector runtime, digest size, and recipient runtime breakdown for UnifOMR
between detection via UnifOMD and retrieval via VecBatchPIR [73], with parameter set 2. A similar
conclusion can be drawn as for parameter set 1, except that UnifOMD efficiency is roughly 2× worse
in each metric.

D.3     Alternative Batch PIR
Instead of using VecBatchPIR, we could use other batch PIR constructions. Two other state-of-
the-art batch PIR constructions are PIRANA [56] and OCC [15]. PIRANA has better computation


                                                 52
Figure 14: Degist size breakdown between detection (via UnifOMD, Param2) and retrieval (via
VecBatchPIR [73]). Unless explicitly varied on the x-axis, we fix the parameters to N = 221 ,
P = 612 bytes, and k = 500. From left to right, the plots are linear-log scaled, linear-log scaled,
and linear-linear scaled, respectively.




Figure 15: Recipient runtime breakdown between detection (via UnifOMD, Param2) and retrieval
(via VecBatchPIR [73]). Unless explicitly varied on the x-axis, we fix the parameters to N = 221 ,
P = 612 bytes, and k = 500. From left to right, the plots are linear-log scaled, linear-log scaled,
and linear-linear scaled, respectively.




                                                53
compared to VecBatchPIR but worse communication, and OCC has worse computation but better
communication (for large payloads). However, unfortunately, the implementation of OCC is not
publicly available, and for some parameters we are interested in, PIRANA has errors in their im-
plementation. Thus, we could only use VecBatchPIR. Nevertheless, we would like to note that for
PIRANA, the computation cost is less but still comparable to VecBatchPIR. Thus, changing from
VecBatchPIR to PIRANA would not affect our claims.

D.4    Comparison to InstantOMR [54]
A very recent concurrent work InstantOMR [54] introduces another single-server FHE-based OMR
construction. This section presents a more extensive comparison with InstantOMR.
Server runtime. For a large number of messages, such as N ≥ 216 (and a single-core detector),
InstantOMR has a worse detector runtime (> 10× worse than SophOMR and thereby > 250× worse
than our UnifOMR). However, for a single message, InstantOMR takes < 0.1 second. In general,
InstantOMR takes ∼0.1 second per message for N messages, while for SophOMR, the runtime is
almost identical to having 216 messages even when N ≪ 216 (since the underlying BFV requires
SophOMR to batch 216 messages to achieve its best detector runtime). Thus, for a small batch of
messages, InstantOMR can outperform SophOMR. However, since InstantOMR is > 250× slower
than UnifOMR, to outperform UnifOMR, N ⪅ 10 is needed (since we only need to batch 2048
messages to maximize our efficiency for the OMD component of our UnifOMR), which may be too
small for real-world applications.
Communication costs. InstantOMR shares a similar digest size as SophOMR (about 4× worse
than SophOMR but also asymptotically compact). Thus, the communication comparison is similar
to our comparison with SophOMR, so we skip the details.
Latency. As mentioned in Section 7, InstantOMR [54] focuses on the “latency” of OMR. Essen-
tially, latency refers to the time between when the recipient submits the retrieval request and when
the recipient receives the digest. In regular settings, the latency is essentially the detector runtime
for InstantOMR and SophOMR. InstantOMR is mainly concerned with the case when the number
of messages is small, such as a single message (which is more reasonable in the application with
streaming updates, discussed in more detail below).
    For UnifOMR, latency is slightly more complicated as we have two rounds. Thus, to measure
latency, we first use the traffic control tool ‘tc’ to emulate network latency (30 ms) and enforce
a bandwidth limit of 1 gigabit/s (emulating the wide area network, WAN) to test a two-party
two-round communication time (with given size of digests). This time is used together with the
runtime (including client and server runtime) of the underlying batchPIR construction. Under such
tests, we show that for the parameters tested in [54], N = 216 , k̄ = 50, our latency is < 8 seconds,
orders of magnitude faster than InstantOMR. Furthermore, even under the extreme case, where
there is only a single message, our latency is < 2 seconds. While this is slower than InstantOMR,
which is < 0.1 second, we believe such latency is sufficient for applications (and > 25× smaller
than SophOMR).
    Note that this test also confirms our end-to-end runtime is still dominated by the detector
runtime, not communication.
Streaming updates. The main application scenario proposed by InstantOMR is “streaming
updates”. In this setting, the recipient uploads its detection key to the server in advance. When
new messages arrive, the detector uses the uploaded key to accumulate the digest. In this case, when


                                                  54
becoming online, the recipient may be able to obtain the digest immediately: for InstantOMR, if
there are n newly arriving messages the moment that the recipient is online, it takes ∼0.1·c seconds
for the recipient to receive the digest (regardless of N , which includes the messages accumulated
offline, being already processed by the detector). In this setting, the latency is between the time
the recipient becomes online and the time the recipient receives its digest.
     In UnifOMR, this runtime is mostly the PIR runtime, which can be tens of seconds for millions
of messages, which is a noticeable difference compared to InstantOMR. Thus, in the application
where streaming updates are necessary and the server is highly powerful (which can afford spending
∼0.1 second per message per core), InstantOMR can be preferred over UnifOMR. However, in other
cases (either streaming updates are not needed or the server is less powerful), UnifOMR is preferred.
Multi-threading. Another advantage of InstantOMR over SophOMR is its inherent capability of
being parallelized. For c CPU cores, the detector runtime of InstantOMR is the same for 1 message
and c messages with multi-threading. This means that for a powerful server (e.g., > 250 cores),
the detector runtime of InstantOMR can be as fast as single-threaded UnifOMR.
     However, we would like to note that UnifOMR can also be potentially multi-threaded: as long as
the underlying batchPIR scheme can be multi-threaded. Our OMD component is almost perfectly
multi-threaded (i.e., achieving the same capability as InstantOMR), since our BFV multiplication is
all in NTT form. Thus, as long as the batchPIR we rely on benefits from multi-threading, UnifOMR
can be greatly parallelized as well. We leave this as a future direction to explore.


E    Open Questions
While our scheme establishes the theoretical and concrete foundations for OMR, there are still a
lot of interesting open questions.
Circumventing/Tightening the lower bound. One interesting direction is to build a non-
detection-key-unlinkable OMR construction. This immediately avoids our lower bound. However,
it is not quite clear how this helps efficiency. For example, the general scheme via FHE introduced
in [58] indeed does not have detection-key-unlinkability. However, it is still asymptotically as slow
as the prior works (and standard PIR) and concretely even a lot worse. Thus, it is unclear why
this would help. An alternative question is whether we can prove a lower bound for OMR without
strong-detection-key-unlinkability.
What compact OMR implies. Right now, we show that non-compact OMR implies key-
private PKE with wrong-key-decryption. However, as shown by [58], OMR is implied by FHE.
There is a certain gap between key-private PKE and FHE. Thus, it would be interesting to see if
the compactness of OMR can help show that OMR implies a stronger primitive.
Proving PIR does not imply OMR. While our proof (Theorem 5.2) provides strong evidence
that PIR does not imply OMR, it is not formally proven. It would be interesting to see if this could
be proven or disproved.
The use of stateful PIR. In UnifOMR, we use the most standard version of PIR: not client-
preprocessing [30, 95, 34] nor global preprocessing [55, 43, 53, 69]. In client-preprocessing PIR
schemes, each client holds some hint of the database, which can only be obtained by streaming the
whole database offline [95] or using very heavy FHE [34]. However, neither is suitable for OMR. On
the other hand, global silent preprocessing [53, 69] can be more relevant. However, these schemes
now have relatively large communication costs. Directly making it batchPIR can easily cause close


                                                 55
to a hundred megabytes of communication for the parameters we are interested in, as in Section 7.
Thus, a study on making stateful PIR concretely more suitable for OMR is another interesting
direction.
Single-server OMR with a different assumption. To our knowledge, all existing compact
single-server OMR constructions rely on lattice-based assumptions. An interesting open question is
whether one can construct a (compact) OMR scheme from alternative assumptions (e.g., leveraging
leveled homomorphic encryption under different hardness assumptions [29])).
Integrity of single-server OMR. For single-server OMR, a long-standing open problem is
achieving integrity. Current constructions guarantee correctness only under a semi-honest server
assumption, while privacy is proven against malicious servers. Bridging this gap remains an im-
portant challenge. A natural approach to achieving integrity is to equip the server with a proof
of correct evaluation. One promising direction is to generate such proofs homomorphically (e.g.,
[36, 5, 35, 94, 79]).
    Interestingly, the existing OMR standard privacy notion is “CPA-like,” in the sense that the
adversary does not learn any information from recipients after retrieval. While this assumption
can be reasonable, particularly in the presence of key unlinkability, it is natural to ask whether one
can strengthen security to a ‘CCA-like” notion. Achieving such a guarantee appears to be non-
trivial, even if integrity is assumed. In particular, lattice-based constructions may be vulnerable to
so-called IND-CPA-D attacks [52, 24, 23, 14, 63], where even the decryption of honestly generated
ciphertexts can leak information about the secret key. As a result, obtaining full “CCA-like”
security for single-server OMR likely requires additional care and new techniques.
Multi-server OMR. Existing multi-server OMR constructions rely on communicating servers [66,
47, 27]. A natural direction for future work is to explore constructions based on non-communicating
servers, similar to the setting of multi-server PIR (e.g., [10, 30, 88, 39, 50, 44]). One possible
approach is to build OMR using homomorphic secret sharing [19, 20, 6, 93, 48], which is widely
open since HSS mainly focuses on evaluating branching programs. Another direction is to relax
the environment assumptions: rather than assuming semi-honest servers for privacy18 , one could
instead consider rational adversaries (e.g., [40, 41, 42]).




 18
      [27] considers malicious servers, but at a non-negligible performance cost.


                                                           56
